Ms. Paik Ji-ah (Republic of Korea): I thank the
Assistant Secretary-General Fernandez-Taranco and
Assistant Secretary-General Simonovie for their
briefings.

Since the signing of the Minsk agreement, the
Republic of Korea has been closely monitoring the
situation in eastern Ukraine with the expectation that
there might be a turning point towards a political
solution to the crisis. However, despite the overall
decrease in violence, fighting has continued to flare
up in Donetsk with daily reports of shelling and
skirmishes threatening to derail a fragile ceasefire. We
are especially troubled by the report that more than 300
fatalities have been recorded since the ceasefire came
into effect. Those ongoing ceasefire violations clearly
show that the risk of the re-escalation of tensions still
remains. We need to keep in mind that the slightest
provocation could once again cause the situation
to spiral further out of control. In the light of such a
volatile situation on the ground, all concerned parties
must take immediate and credible steps towards the
observance of a durable ceasefire, including the full
implementation of the Minsk ceasefire memorandum.
Any further incitement or provocative actions aimed at
disrupting the peace process must cease immediately.

In that regard, we believe that there must be effective
control and credible verification of the ceasefire as
an integral part of the implementation of the Minsk
ceasefire memorandum. A monitoring mechanism of
an international and impartial nature, as embodied in
the Organization for Security and Cooperation Special
Monitoring Mission to Ukraine, is an indispensable
tool for verifying such cease fire commitments. At
the same time, the safety and security of international
personnel under difficult and challenging conditions
must be fully guaranteed by all actors on the ground.

We also take this opportunity to reiterate our full
support for the work of the United Nations Human
Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine. As its recent
report elaborated in detail, the protracted fighting in
eastern Ukraine has resulted in further deterioration
of the human rights and humanitarian situations,
which continue to be a source of deep concern. We
are particularly disheartened that there have been
over 3,000 casualties to date, and a large number
of internally displaced persons, whose situation
becomes increasingly precarious with the onset of the
winter. Moreover, reports of widespread human rights
violations by illegal armed groups, involving killings,
abductions, arbitrary detention and torture, speak to
the urgency of bringing perpetrators to justice and
establishing accountability.

With important elections scheduled for 26 October,
we would like to reiterate that an inclusive political
process is the essential foundation for a stable and
democratic future for all Ukrainian people. In that
regard, we welcome the progressive steps taken by the
Ukrainian Government in implementing the provisions
of the Minsk ceasefire memorandum, notably the
adoption ofa draft law on amnesty and special status for
the eastern region, which is an important step towards
a more inclusive political process, which we hope can
provide a sound basis for the de-escalation of tensions.

In conclusion, the Republic of Korea supports the
ongoing diplomatic efforts towards the stabilization
of Ukraine, including the recent meetings on the
sidelines of the Asia-Europe summit in Milan. While
the situation on the ground remains tense, such
constructive diplomatic efforts give us reasons for
hope. We once again encourage all concerned parties to
continue exerting maximum efforts to seek a peaceful
political solution.

