Mr. Pavlichenko (Ukraine): I thank you for
convening this important meeting, Madam President.
I would also like to thank Assistant Secretary-General
Fernandez-Taranco and Assistant Secretary-General
Simonovie for their briefings today.

We continue to welcome the reports of the United
Nations Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine
and the assistance of the United Nations. We are fully
committed to protecting and promoting the human
rights of all Ukrainian citizens, including those who
live in the temporarily occupied Ukrainian territory
of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. We have taken
careful note of the issues raised by Mr. Simonovie in the
Monitoring Mission's latest report and will continue to
work closely with his team.

In order to ensure the proper protection of civil
rights and to eliminate the remnants of the totalitarian
economy and the injustices of Yanukovych's rule,
Ukraine needs comprehensive reforms. To that end,
President Poroshenko has launched a reform strategy
for 2020. Its eight priority areas are reform of the
judiciary and the fight against corruption, reform of law
enforcement bodies, deregulation and development of
entrepreneurship, tax reform, decentralization of power
and good governance, security and defence-sector
reform, and health-care reform. Last week Parliament
passed a package of anti-corruption measures and
legislation aimed at strengthening the rule of law.
The President also signed a decree initiating work
on developing a national human rights strategy. The
reforms were drafted in close cooperation with civil
society and are public-inspired and people-oriented.
Further measures will follow.

But even as we work to build a better future, we
continue to make it absolutely clear that all crimes,
particularly those relating to violations of human rights
and fundamental freedoms, must be fully investigated,
and those responsible brought to justice. That applies
to the killings in the Maidan in February as much as it
does to the tragedy in Odessa on 2 May. The first cases
connected to those tragic events are already before
the courts. Last week, Human Rights Watch published
a report suggesting that the Ukrainian armed forces
may have used cluster munitions in Donetsk. Our
forces have never used cluster munitions or any other
prohibited weapons. The Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) confirmed on
Wednesday that there is no evidence that Ukrainian
forces have used such weapons, but we have nothing
to hide and are ready for an open and transparent
investigation.

The latest report of the United Nations Human
Rights Monitoring Mission presents further details of
the appalling human-rights situation in the areas under
militant control in eastern Ukraine. It highlights the
role of foreign militants, particularly those from the
Russian Federation, and the continuing grave human-
rights violations committed by illegal armed groups.
As the report makes clear, those groups are terrorizing
Ukrainian citizens in the areas under their control. They
resort to daily acts of abuse, including torture, killings
and kidnappings. The report details, for example, the
introduction of a criminal code, based on that of the
Russian Federation, providing for the establishment of
military tribunals and the use of the death penalty. We
utterly condemn such violations of basic human rights.
These are Ukrainians, and their rights are being abused
by the militant groups who claim to be protecting them.

The latest report also draws attention to cases of
Ukrainian citizens' capture and subsequent illegal
transfer to Russia. One such is the case of a Ukrainian
servicewoman, Nadiya Savchenko, who was kidnapped
in July on Ukrainian territory by Russian security
services and is currently being kept under illegal arrest
in Russia. The Russian law-enforcement agencies and
courts have handled her case in a very untransparent
way, with numerous violations of her rights. The
Ukrainian film director Oleg Sentsov is also being
illegally held captive. Russia refuses to grant Ukrainian
consular access to Mr. Sentsov because, since he is a
resident of Crimea, they now falsely claim, without
his permission, that he is a Russian citizen, in a grave
violation of his rights as a citizen of Ukraine, as well
as contrary to Ukrainian legislation and internationally
recognized legal standards. Moreover, according to
information the Government of Ukraine has received,
both captives have been ill treated in Russian prisons.

We continue to be gravely concerned about the
massive and systematic violations of human rights
in illegally occupied Crimea. In complete violation
of international law, Russia has forcibly imposed
its national legislation there. Occupation authorities
have also encouraged criminal acts against Crimean
Tatars and others belonging to national minorities and
religious groups. The Russian authorities have refused
to facilitate proper investigations or even to comment
on the killings and abductions of pro-Ukrainian and
Crimean Tatar activists, who include Reshat Ametov,
Tymur Shaymardanov, Seyran Zinedine, Leonid Korzh
and Vasyl Chernysh. They have prevented the Tatar
leaders Mustafa Jemilev and Rifat Chubarov from
travelling to the Crimean peninsula, their historical
native land.

Illegal detentions, torture, property searches,
confiscations, and pressures on business and social
activity groups have become daily realities for the
residents of Crimea. We demand that Russia, as the
temporary occupier of Crimea, stop violating the rights
of our citizens. At a minimum the situation there must
be internationally monitored on a constant basis. We
welcome the continuing commitment of the United
Nations to ensuring that those suffering in Crimea are
not forgotten.

As President Poroshenko has repeatedly stated,
Ukraine is fully committed to a peaceful settlement of
the situation in the east of our country. That situation
was not of our making, but we are striving to end the
bloodshed. Our commitment to finding a peaceful
solution resulted in the signing of the Minsk protocol
and the Minsk memorandum amoong Ukraine, the
OSCE and the Russian Federation, with the participation
of representatives of militant groups.

Immediately after the signing of the Minsk

protocol, the Ukrainian Government moved quickly to
implement the agreement. Our Parliament adopted a
law on interim local self-government in certain districts
of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and set the date for
local elections. It also adopted a law granting amnesty
to those involved in the recent unrest. We entered into
talks regarding hostage exchanges, resulting in over
1,000 people being freed. We continued to provide
humanitarian relief, working in close partnership
with United Nations agencies and other international
organizations, and the new law, adopted on Monday,
on the temporary status of internally displaced persons
will further facilitate our humanitarian efforts. We
prepared a plan for economic renewal and growth,
including plans for the economic revival of the Donbas
region, and have called for a donor conference later this
year. We have rendered all possible assistance to the
OSCE Special Monitoring Mission in order to create
conditions for its experts to verify the ceasefire.

We fully support current efforts to step up those
monitoring efforts, as demanded under articles 2 and 4
of the Minsk protocol, particularly along the Ukrainian-
Russian border. At present, only two border crossings
are monitored by the OSCE. That is clearly insufficient.
Unfortunately, on Wednesday, our proposal to expand
the monitoring of the border was blocked by the
Russian Federation in the OSCE. It is of grave concern
that, despite being a signatory to the agreement, Russia
refuses to undertake tangible steps to implement it. It
is clear that that is simply a cynical attempt to maintain
the daily flows of arms, weaponry and militants from
Russia to Ukraine.

We have strictly observed the ceasefire regime, the
details ofwhich are specified in the Minsk memorandum.
Since its signature, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have
not undertaken offensive operations and have used their
weapons only to defend themselves. Regrettably, our
goodwill has not been reciprocated. Militant leaders
have openly stated their intentions to violate the terms of
the ceasefire and their aim of capturing new territories,
including the cities of Mariupol and Sloviansk. Fierce
fighting has been occurring around Donetsk airport and
the outskirts of the towns of Debaltseve and Shchastya,
where the militants are trying to extend the area under
their control.

It is a tragedy that Ukrainian citizens continue to
lose their lives. Since the truce started, the positions
of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been shelled
over two thousand times. As a result of those attacks,
89 Ukrainian servicemen have been killed and 500
wounded. At least 54 Ukrainian civilians have been
killed as a result of separatist shelling, including
7 killed by separatist rocket fire near the village of
Sartana last week.

If the Minsk agreements are to succeed, all
parties must live up to one hundred per cent of their
commitments. The militants, together with Russian
troops that continue to remain on our soil, must cease
their offensive military actions and end the shelling
of civilian areas. All foreign military personnel
must leave the territory of Ukraine. The Russian
Federation must cease its illegal supplies of weapons
and equipment, limit the flow of so-called volunteers
across our sovereign border and allow us to re-establish
proper controls.

Unfortunately, what we are now seeing is the
continuation of a military build-up by Russia along our
border and in north Crimea. The illegal militant groups
have been able to strengthen their military capabilities
and are now threatening to seize other cities of Ukraine
by further offensive military actions. In making those
calls, we are simply urging Russia and its pro-Russian
separatist allies to live up to the agreements they freely
entered into. In particular, we warn them to refrain
from any provocations aimed at disrupting the coming
elections.

This Sunday, national parliamentary elections will
be held across Ukraine. Local elections in the Donbas
region envisaged by the Minsk protocol are scheduled
for December The leadership of Ukraine will do its
utmost to ensure their fair and transparent conduct, in
full compliance with international democratic standards
and the legislation of Ukraine. Both those votes are
an integral part of the peace process and are vital for
an inclusive dialogue at the national level. They will
identify parliamentary representatives from all regions
of Ukraine and legitimate local representatives in the
Donbas.

As of today, due to the security situation in the
east, parliamentary elections can be held in 11 of
21 constituencies of the Donetsk region and in 4 of
11 constituencies of the Luhansk region. But it is
important that everyone's voice is heard. Therefore,
we urge that free and secure access to polling stations
be granted to those Ukrainian citizens who reside in
the areas that remain under militant control. We call
on Russia to unequivocally condemn the attempts
by the illegal armed groups to hold their own local
elections on 2 November. Moscow must make clear to
the militant authorities that that effort will hinder the
peace process and that the results of that illegal vote,
organized in violation of Ukrainian legislation, will
never be recognized.

Since the beginning of this year, Ukraine has
suffered immense upheaval. Our territory has been
illegally occupied and our borders violated. In pursuit
of its own narrow self-interests, Russia has instigated
a brutal insurgency in the Donbas region that has led
to the loss of numerous lives, including the passengers
of Flight MH-l7, shot down by a separatist missile.
International law has been trampled and the human
rights of Ukrainian citizens abused.

In this difficult time we are grateful for the support
shown by the United Nations, members of this Council,
the European Union and the members of international
community who have stood up for the Charter of the
United Nations and the principles of this Organization.
But the crisis in our country is not yet over. We need he
Council's help now more than ever to bring an end to
the violence. In September we engaged in arrangements
with the hope of ending the bloodshed and ensuring
sustainable peace. To fulfil that goal the terms of the
agreement must be implemented in full by all involved
in the trilateral dialogue. We urge the Council to hold
all signatories to their commitments.

