Mr. Delattre (France) (spoke in French): I should
like to welcome the presence in the Council today of
His Excellency Mr. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Germany, and to thank him for
his particularly enlightening statement. On behalf of
my country, I should like also warmly to congratulate
Germany on its assumption of the chairmanship of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) this year. Of course, we intend to closely
cooperate, with full confidence, with our German
friends in this body in the months to come. They
know that they can count on our full support in the
implementation of their programme of work, which is
rightly focused on the issues he mentioned, including
the relaunching of dialogue, the rebuilding of trust and
the restoration of security.

I wish to touch on two points: the central role of
the OSCE in our efforts to put an end to the Ukrainian
crisis, and the priority challenges on which the OSCE
should, in a more general manner, be concentrating
its efforts.
The crisis unfolding today in eastern Ukraine is
one of the most serious and dangerous violations of the
founding principles ofthe OSCE, as adopted in Helsinki
more than 40 years ago. It is therefore fitting that this
issue has dominated the agenda of the organization
for more than two years now. The OSCE has risen to
the challenge and shouldered its responsibilities by
deploying swiftly a Special Monitoring Mission and
playing a central role in the implementation of the
Minsk agreements. The OSCE must continue to play
this core role in the context of the international efforts
aimed at resolving the crisis. Our goal here remains a
return of control for Ukraine across its internationally
recognized borders, which includes reinstating its
authority over Crimea. Our position on this issue, which
is in keeping with international law, will not change.

We welcome the fact that the mandate of the Special
Monitoring Mission to Ukraine was extended several
days ago for an additional year upon the initiative of
the German chairmanship. Germany's chairmanship
means that we can strengthen the links between the
various crisis-management tools available, including
the Normandy format, which is the priority negotiation
format for parties, and the OSCE, which is providing
follow-up on the ground and mediation on a daily basis.

For France, resolving the Ukrainian crisis remains
a priority. We are determined to continue our efforts in
the Normandy format to ensure the full implementation
of the Minsk agreements, which represents the only
possible framework to achieve a peaceful settlement.
This is one of the messages that Minister Steinmeier
conveyed, alongside his French counterpart, during
their joint visit to Kyiv last week. In terms of content,
our position is clear: we are deeply worried about the
ongoing Violations of the ceasefire, whose number has
increased in recent weeks, and we deplore the piecemeal
application of the Minsk agreements on the ground.

The Minsk agreements are an international
commitment whose provisions must be implemented by
all parties. This includes the effective implementation
of the ceasefire, which is the only possible basis for
moving forward, as well as the implementation of the
other measures planned for by the Minsk framework,
namely, the adoption of a constitutional reform on
decentralization and a special electoral law for Donbas,
given the fact that the definition of a political horizon
is the only way to ensure that the security situation
remains stable.

All of these questions will be on the agenda of the
next ministerial meeting in the Normandy format, to be
held on Thursday in Paris. This will be a crucial time
with respect to our mediation and to the conflict, and
all parties must shoulder their responsibilities. We call
upon other members of the Council to urgently convey
this message. In the meantime, more generally, it is vital
that the Special Monitoring Mission of the OSCE be in
a position to fully and without hindrance discharge its
mandate. We once again call for respect of the freedom
of movement of the monitors and firmly condemn any
violation of that principle, be it through intimidation,
threats or prohibition of access to certain areas. We
should also think about how to give the organization the
ability to better monitor the border between Russia and
Ukraine and to set up a new advance presence in areas
currently under separatist control. The commitment
of the OSCE to ensuring security for local elections
in Donbas will also be necessary, on the basis of
arrangements yet to be determined.

Beyond Ukraine, the OSCE remains a key
instrument for promoting peace and security in Europe
in a context characterized by a broad spectrum of
threats. This situation should encourage its 57 members
to give up political posturing and embrace once again
the Helsinki spirit of which Minister Steinmeier just
spoke, which enabled a shared vision of security in
Europe and which was reiterated in the 2010 Astana
commemorative declaration of Heads of State and
Government, entitled "Towards a security community",
based on the three well-known dimensions on which
the organization focuses.

In this context, we believe that the work of the
OSCE must today emphasize the following issues
in particular.

First, let me touch on the settlement of regional
conflicts. Beyond the Ukrainian crisis, we cannot accept
the continued existence of frozen conflicts throughout
Europe, be it in Nagorno Karabakh, Transdniestria or
Georgia, which was mentioned earlier. We share the
belief of the German chairmanship that the OSCE's
role is key in all of these situations, within established
mediation formats, so as to promote dialogue and
re-establish confidence.

I turn now to the issue of bolstering the OSCE's
capacities in the cycle of conflict. Conflict prevention
is an issue on which we deem it not only possible
but also urgent to make headway together. Here we
welcome the decision of the German chairmanship
to attach priority importance to arms control and the
adoption of confidence-building measures during this
year, in which important timelines are coming up with
respect to the Vienna Document and the Treaty on
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe.

With respect to upholding the Vital importance of
the democracy and human rights pillar in the work of
the OSCE, although a multidimensional approach has
always been at the heart of the OSCE's work, we are
nevertheless concerned at the increasing tendency on
the part of certain members to politicize or even reject
consideration of issues related to the human dimension.
The approach taken by the German chairmanship of
relaunching work in this area while focusing on issues
such as combating discrimination, racism, xenophobia
and intolerance is welcome, on the understanding that
such work cannot overshadow the efforts that must be
made in the area of democracy and human rights.

With regard to developing the central role of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
to certain emerging challenges a I am thinking in
particular about migration, combatting radicalization
and even climate change f it is important with all
of those issues, which are so important for European
security, that the OSCE work towards specific
responses beyond public posturing. We fully support
the desire of the German chairmanship to encourage
the Organization to focus on those areas of expertise,
such as in the fight against human trafficking in the
context of migration, for example. Particular attention
should be paid to the impact of climate change on
security. We think that would be quite timely, following
the Paris agreement.

I conclude my statement by recalling the common
ground that exists between the activities of the OSCE
and the United Nations. Whether it be in the field or in
their respective missions in the Balkans, the Caucasus
or Central Asia, they must always act in an integrated
manner. There is also common ground in terms of
principles with the defence of a common approach that
encompasses security, development and human rights.
France is convinced that the founding principles of the
OSCE remain more relevant than ever to guarantee
security in Europe. Unlike those who believe today that
there is a need to abandon or change such principles,
we think that it important to collectively mobilize to
ensure those principles are upheld.

Once again, on behalf of my country I would
like to wish Germany every success as it assumes the
chairmanship and pledge France's resolve to support its
programme of work at the head of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe.
