Ms. Sison (United States of America): I thank
Foreign Minster Kurz for his briefing on the planned
activities under the Austrian chairmanship.

The track record of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) clearly demonstrates
the unique and significant role that that organization
plays in Europe. The United States fully supports the
organization's comprehensive approach to security. We
look to the OSCE and its independent institutions and
field missions to assist all 57 participating States with
the full implementation of their OSCE commitments,
and we look to the OSCE to hold those States accountable
when they fail to do so.

As Ambassador Nikki Haley made clear yesterday,
the United States is committed to the institutions that
help keep Europe safe (see S/PV.7886). We commend the
long-standing commitment and ongoing efforts of the
OSCE in support of regional security. From promoting
peaceful resolutions to conflicts to working with
Governments on the rule of law and anti-corruption,
the OSCE plays a key role in strengthening security and
stability, addressing humanitarian needs of conflict-
afflicted populations and promoting good governance
in the region. We believe that the organization should
also continue its focus on supporting civil society
and independent media and on promoting tolerance
and non-discrimination throughout the OSCE region.
We urge Mr. Kurz to make the full implementation
of all human dimension commitments by all OSCE
participating States a priority of his chairmanship.

The commitment and bravery of the Special
Monitoring Mission to Ukraine deserves particular
recognition. As recent weeks have seen, an increase in
violence, including the use of heavy weapons, civilian
causalities and damage to critical infrastructure have
compounded a desperate humanitarian situation.
The Special Monitoring Mission has worked with
humanitarian organizations on both sides of the line
of contact to ensure that civilians enduring freezing
conditions, on top ofthe relentless fighting, have access
to heat, water and electricity. OSCE monitors risk
their own safety to fulfil their mandate to document
ceasefire violations and to provide critical information
of the situation on the ground. They deserve our
respect and support as they press all sides to bring
an immediate end to violence. They must be granted
full and unfettered access and safe passage to better
perform their mission, particularly in areas held by
Russian-backed separatists.

We continue to be concerned about threats made
to the Special Monitoring Mission and underscore the
importance of all sides to protect them and their work
in monitoring the situation on the ground. The United
States continues to support the Minsk agreements and
their full and immediate implementation, as the best
path to resolve the conflict and alleviate the suffering
in eastern Ukraine. This should remain a priority of the
OSCE and we reiterate our call on Russia to adhere to
its commitments. We must not forget the situation in
occupied Crimea. We once again call for an end to the
Russian occupation and attempted annexation of the
peninsula.

The United States remains fully committed
to supporting the OSCE's efforts in other areas as
well. In Georgia, the OSCE plays a positive role in
keeping all sides accountable and we encourage the
Organization to remain actively engaged as the conflict
with Russia in Georgia's occupied territories continues
to undermind European security. As a participant
in the Geneva international discussions, the United
States looks forward to continuing our work with the
OSCE to find a peaceful resolution that guarantees
Georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity within
its internationally recognized borders. As one of the
three co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group, the United
States supports the peaceful settlement of the Nagorno
Karabakh conflict. The sides have made progress
over the years towards a comprehensive settlement
through this process. We call on the sides to enter
into negotiations and complete confidence-building
measures agreed last spring. This conflict cannot be
resolved by force.

We are firmly committed to a comprehensive
settlement of the Transnistria conflict. We believe that
the 5+2 talks can play an important role in resolving
the conflict, but any 5+2 meeting must deliver concrete
results. The OSCE mission must have unrestricted
access to all of Moldova, including the Transnistrian
region, and we call on the Transnistrian authorities to
grant OSCE monitors consistent, unfettered access.

Finally, we would like to highlight the OSCE's vital

role in supporting the implementation of our decisions
in the Security Council. The OSCE's support for two
Security Council resolutions, in particular resolution
1540 (2004), is part of the global effort to address
weapons' proliferation, and resolution 1325 (2000) to
end violence against women and ensure women are at
the centre of efforts to resolve conflicts and counter
violent extremism.

The United States applauds the OSCE for its work
to reinforce security throughout Europe. The United
Nations-OSCE relationship is central to the Council's
work in the region. We look forward to continuing and
deepening the decades of dialogue and cooperation
between the United Nations and the OSCE.

