I wouldjust like to offer a couple of points in response.

First, for the Russians to blame Ukraine for Ukraine's actions in defence of its own people on its own territory really is starting to remind me of the story of the schoolboy who returned home with his nose bloody and his shirt torn and, asked by his mother how the fight started, he said "it started when the other boy hit me back". We have to be clear about cause and effect here, and many Council members, including me, have already gone through the facts that have brought us to this point.

My second point is to debunk yet another of the lies that have been told in this Chamber, because it relates to my country, the United States. People in this Chamber have heard many times, including just now, that the United States and other countries never called oon protesters in the Maidan to leave buildings or avoid violence. The implication is that we are holding Russian separatists to a different standard. That is a claim that has been made in almost every meeting we have had. I would just like to correct the record. On 15 January, we condemned the actions of rioters outside a Kyiv court building on 10 January. On 22 January, the aggressive actions of members of the extreme-right group Pravy Sektor were unacceptable, enflaming conditions on the streets and undermining the efforts of peaceful protesters. We condemned the targeted attacks against journalists and unofficial groups such as Titushky. On 24 January, when protesters occupied some regional administration buildings, we reiterated our call for all protesters and Government forces to refrain from violence and the destruction of property.
On 27 January, we made clear that we condemned the use of violence to seize Government buildings, such as the takeover of a Ministry of Justice building that took place over the past cople of days and of a public exhibition hall that weekend, and continued to reiterate our call for all protesters and Government forces to refrain from violence and the destruction of property.
Those are just a few of the statements that we made, but if we could just take that particular lie of the table, it would be helpful and a little more constructive.

What is more important now is where we go from here. What I would ask my Russian colleague is whether Russia will make public statements and work privately behind the scenes to urge Russian separatists to negotiate peacefully their departure from public buildings. Where does Russia assess that Russian separatists who claim loyalty to the Russian Government and who wear uniforms just like those of Russian soldiers obtained weapons and training capable of shooting down Ukrainian helicopters? Finally, Russia repeatedly takes aim at the so-called illegitimate Government in Kyiv but refuses to acknowledge ever, in any meeting, that it did not embrace the 21 February agreement when it was negotiated. We have a golden opportunity on 25 May for the people of eastern Ukraine to have their voices heard, for them to choose their own leaders and for us to get to a universally legitimate Government that is respected and chosen by all of the people of Ukraine. Yet Russia will not come out in support of the elections and work with us to ensure that they take place - which would be the best way of ensuring rights, representativeness and greater autonomy for the people of eastern Ukraine.

