Ms. Guadey (Ethiopia): I wish to start by
congratulating His Excellency Mr. Sebastian Kurz, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs ofAustria, on his becoming
Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). I would also like to
thank him for his comprehensive briefing.

We welcome the significant contribution that
the OSCE continues to make in supporting the
maintenance of international peace and security as
one of the largest regional security organizations. Its
comprehensive approach to security, which includes the
political, military, economic, environmental and human
dimensions, is in line with the new global paradigm
aimed at ensuring sustainable peace and development.

In that connection, we take note ofthe organization's
efforts in conflict prevention and resolution as well
as post-conflict reconstruction and peacebuilding.
Particularly, we appreciate the important role that
the OSCE is playing in the efforts to resolve the
protracted and new conflicts in South-Eastern Europe,
Eastern Europe, the South Caucasus and Central
Asia, in cooperation with the United Nations and the
European Union.

As we said yesterday during our debate on conflicts
in Europe (see S/PV.7886), dialogue and negotiation
remain the only way to find a durable and diplomatic
solution to some of those conflicts and extremely
delicate issues of peace and security affecting States
members of the OSCE. We cannot overemphasize the
need for the political will and commitment ofthe parties
to some of those conflicts to reach peaceful settlements
but also to ensure that agreements are fully respected
and implemented. Building the necessary trust and
confidence between and among the parties is also very
critical to making tangible progress. We are pleased to
note that the Austrian chairmanship has made that one
of its main priorities. Most importantly, its commitment
to continue exerting efforts to enhance informal and
alternative channels of communication to improve
mutual understanding and trust is very welcome.

As in other regions of the world, the growing
threats of terrorism and violent extremism pose a
significant security challenge to States members of
the OSCE. The organization has been playing a very
important role in preventing and combating terrorism
by promoting a coordinated approach among member
States. In that context, it is only appropriate that the
Austrian chairmanship is placing greater emphasize on
addressing youth radicalization and violent extremism
in the entire OSCE area.

Promoting cooperation with other relevant regional
and international organizations will be Vital for the
OSCE not only in countering terrorism but also in all
the other dimensions of its work. Ethiopia attaches great
importance to cooperation between the United Nations
and regional organizations, in line with Chapter VIII
of the Charter of the United Nations. In that regard,
we appreciate the partnership between the OSCE and
the United Nations, which has been maintained through
high-level dialogues and information-sharing, as well
as cooperation in the field.

Finally, we wish the Austrian chairmanship success
in implementing its priorities towards achieving greater
security and stability in the entire OSCE area.

