Ms. Lucas (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): I too
would like to thank the Assistant Secretary-General for
Political Affairs, Mr. Oscar Fernandez-Taranco, and
the Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights,
Mr. Ivan Simonovie, for their briefings.

Luxembourg is deeply concerned by the human
rights situation in eastern Ukraine, especially in the
regions of Luhansk and Donetsk, which are now outside
the control of the Government of Ukraine. We condemn
the many cases of killings, abductions, torture, mock
executions, forced labour and forced recruitment, for
which the armed separatist groups are responsible.
The 16 September report of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights also mentions the
adoption of an illegal criminal code re-establishing
the death penalty for certain crimes, the confiscation
of housing from people who have fled the conflict,
and the public humiliation of political opponents and
Ukrainian soldiers who have been taken prisoner.
Those acts deserve our unanimous condemnation.

We also condemn the human rights violations
committed by the battalions of volunteers working
alongside the Ukrainian forces. We have become aware
of the allegations regarding the use of cluster bombs
by the parties to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. The
Special Monitoring Mission of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has,
however, not been able to confirm the truth of those
allegations, and we note that Ukraine has denied
that its forces have used such weapons. We welcome
Ukraine's willingness to cooperate with an impartial
and independent investigation to shed light on those
serious allegations, and we expect the separatists to
do the same. The attacks on populated areas should be
condemned and must stop.

Ukraine has the right and the obligation to defend
its territory against the continuous and repeated
violations of its sovereignty and territorial integrity.
At the same time, it is essential for Ukraine to respect
its international obligations and for its forces to always
act in a proportionate and restrained manner. As the
High Commissioner for Human Rights has said, with
the increasing number of reports of serious violations
of international humanitarian law and human rights
committed in the conflict zone, it is crucial to ensure
accountability and the fight against impunity.

The situation in eastern Ukraine should not lead
us to forget the problems that have persisted in Crimea
since it was illegally annexed by Russia, in flagrant
violation of the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and General Assembly resolution 68/262. The
rights of minorities continue to be violated, especially
those of the Crimean Tatars and the Ukrainian- speaking
populations, the great majority of whom oppose the
recent political changes. We are particularly concerned
by the repeated intimidations targeting the Mejlis of the
Crimean Tatar People and its members, Crimean Tatar
activists and the journalists who cover those events.

We welcome the approval, in the context of
the trilateral contact group, of the Minsk protocol
of 5 September and the Minsk memorandum of
19 September, which represent a step towards a
lasting political solution to the crisis. That solution
must be based on respect for Ukraine's independence,
sovereignty and territorial integrity. We note the
decrease in the overall level of violence following the
ceasefire agreement. However, the ceasefire continues
to be repeatedly violated, particularly by the separatists,
which we strongly condemn.

Luxembourg welcomes Ukraine's efforts to
implement the commitments it has made, including
the Ukrainian Parliament's adoption of legislation
providing amnesty and a transitional status of local
autonomy. We must now redouble our efforts to ensure
that the parties fulfil all the other commitments made
in the Minsk documents. On Monday, in Luxembourg,
the European Union underscored the Russian
Federation's responsibility in that regard and called for
the withdrawal of armed groups, military equipment,
combatants and illegal mercenaries, as well as the
securing of the border between Ukraine and Russia, and
the constant monitoring of that border by the OSCE.
We regret that it has not yet been possible to extend
the OSCE monitoring mission deployed at the border
posts of Gukovo and Donetsk to other border crossings
adjacent to the territory occupied by the separatists.

We welcome the steps taken by the Government of
Ukraine aimed at the proper holding of parliamentary
elections two days from now, on 26 October. Those
elections will enable the country to continue the positive
reforms that began a few months ago. To ensure free
and fair elections, the OSCE electoral mission will play
a key role, and my country, like others around the table,
will be actively involved in that mission.

We call on the Russian Federation to use its
influence on the separatists to encourage the proper
holding of local elections, scheduled for 7 December,
under the new Ukrainian law. Indeed, only that election
will make it possible to elect legitimate representatives
of the relevant regions, who will be able to participate
in a resumed inclusive national dialogue in Ukraine.

I will conclude by stating the obvious. It is high
time to put an end to this conflict, which has already
led to the deaths of more than 3,700 people, including
at least 36 children. The agreements reached in Minsk
present a unique opportunity that should be seized so
as to restore peace. It is in no one's interest for a new
conflict to take root on the European continent.

