Sir Mark Lyall Grant (United Kingdom): I
welcome the briefing today by Under-Secretary-
General Feltman following his recent visit to Ukraine.
The worrying surge in violence over the past week
underlines the grave threat that the situation in eastern
Ukraine continues to pose to international peace and
security.

We were all shocked at the deaths of at least
12 civilians in Volnovakha earlier this month and
by reports of hospitals being shelled in Donetsk. We
have seen yet more reports of Russian personnel and
equipment crossing the Ukrainian border. Among this,
we have heard the usual pattern of Russian denials and
misinformation.

It is clear, just as it was when we last met, in
November (see S/PV.73ll), that Russia's actions
continue to undermine Ukraine's sovereignty and
territorial integrity, violating international norms and
flouting the principles enshrined in the United Nations
Charter. The humanitarian impact of these actions is
also clear. Over 1 million people have been displaced
from their homes. As winter deepens, the situation
will only get worse, with the elderly, the young and
the infirm all increasingly vulnerable. The separatists
must allow Ukrainian humanitarian convoys to enter
the regions they control, and Russia must stop using
its unilateral humanitarian convoys as cover to supply
those separatists with arms.

The human rights situation gives equal cause for
concern, with human rights violations reported in
the illegally annexed Crimean peninsula and a total
breakdown in law and order in areas under separatist
control.

Against this deteriorating context, it should dismay
us all that repeated calls for a ceasefire and for respect
for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity have
not been heeded. All sides must engage in constructive
dialogue and bring about an end to violence in eastern
Ukraine. Russia must take steps to withdraw its
equipment and troops from Ukraine, cease its support
for the separatists and effectively control its borders.

Despite persistent claims to the contrary, the
evidence of Russia's support is beyond denial. Two days
ago, two companies of Russian troops, including up to
30 armoured personnel carriers and a dozen tanks, were
seen crossing the border into Ukraine. Daily we see
Russian soldiers operating alongside the separatists.
We see separatists brandishing the PKP, Russia's

newest machine gun. We have also seen Russian-
supplied T-72 BM. tanks in the streets of Luhansk and
Donetsk. Neither the PKP nor the T-72 BM. is used by
the Ukrainian armed forces.

The consequences of the situation in the Donbas
continue to hurt both the people and the economies of
Ukraine and Russia. But there is a political way out:
through implementation of the agreements that were
reached in Minsk in September. However, despite a
number of diplomatic initiatives, including today's
Normandy-format meeting, more than 1,000 people
have been killed since those commitments were made
in September, and separatists have taken control of a
substantial additional area of Ukrainian territory since
the September agreements.

Indeed, any analysis of the implementation of the
Minsk agreements lays bare the manifest failure of
Russia and the separatists to implement 10 out of the
12 commitments made on that occasion. In particular,
Russia's refusal to implement two key provisions
continue to undermine the prospects for peace in
Ukraine.

First, at Minsk, all sides agreed to secure
continuous monitoring on the Ukraine/Russian border
and verification by the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) of the creation of a
security zone in the border regions of Ukraine and
Russia. Despite the best efforts ofthe OSCE, whose work
has been exemplary despite the challenges presented,
only two checkpoints are currently monitored on the
Russian side, leaving hundreds of kilometres free for
the flow of weapons and personnel into Ukraine. If it
is serious about Minsk, Russia must stop blocking the
expansion of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission.

Secondly, at Minsk, all sides agreed "to remove
illegal armed formations, military equipment, fighters
and mercenaries from the territory of Ukraine". Yet
hundreds of Russian troops still remain on the territory
of Ukraine, as do thousands of so-called volunteers, in
flagrant violation of the protocol. The withdrawal of
those forces is fundamental to the Minsk agreement and
the only way to secure the future territorial integrity of
Ukraine.

It is important that the Council continue to pay the
closest attention to the situation in Ukraine and insist
on further progress towards the implementation of the
Minsk agreements. Russia has chosen not to uphold its
commitments and pursue this path to restoring stability.
And Ukraine, sadly, is not the only case. Russia has
made an agreement with a breakaway Georgian
province of Abkhazia and is in the process of doing
the same with another Georgian region, South Ossetia.
This demonstrates a pattern of Russian interference
in the domestic affairs of its neighbours and a blatant
disregard for their sovereignty and territorial integrity.

We call on Russia to exert its influence over
separatists, cease the destabilizing activities and work
in good faith to find a political solution. The Minsk
agreements provide the framework for that solution.
They must be implemented in full and without delay.

