Mr. Lamek (France) (spoke in French): I would
start by thanking Mr. Feltman for his briefing. We have
heeded his warning regarding the deterioration of the
security situation in Donbas over the past few days.
Fighting has resumed with an intensity that we had not
seen in Ukraine for several months, especially around
what remains of the Donetsk airport.

What is urgently needed now is to achieve a
de-escalation in order to put the political dialogue back
on track. The parties must understand that there can be
no military solution to the conflict, which has already
claimed over 5,000 lives and which entails significant
costs for Ukraine, Russia and the European Union.

Only the full implementation, in good faith, of the
Minsk agreements by all parties will provide a way out
of the crisis. Every effort must be made to achieve that
goal.

France remains fully mobilized with a View to
achieving a peaceful and lasting settlement of the
conflict, and in that context supports all international
initiatives that share that goal. Minister Laurent Fabius
is in close contact with his German, Russian and
Ukrainian counterparts. Today in Berlin, there have
been further exchanges between the Ministers under
the Normandy format.

Our objectives, as recently recalled by the French
President, are clear and consistent: respect for the
ceasefire; the withdrawal of heavy weapons from the
contact line; the settlement of humanitarian issues;
and, eventually, the election of new representatives in
eastern Ukraine.

Yesterday, the Permanent Council of the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in which
Russia and Ukraine are represented, adopted a political
statement calling for a de-escalation and the full
implementation of the Minsk agreements. That is also a
step in the right direction. But beyond mere words, and
above all, we now need concrete and verifiable action.

The Security Council, which last year dealt with
the Ukrainian crisis on more than 30 occasions, should
support those efforts and participate in the search for a
lasting solution. The risk of the crisis spreading within
Ukraine and beyond should not be underestimated.
Ukraine must therefore remain at the heart of the
Security Council's priorities.

However, for that same reason, we also want to
open a new chapter in 2015 to find a way out of the
spiral of confrontation, and we want to do so without
abandoning our principles. Nothing can undermine the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within
its international borders.

The situation is now, paradoxically, clearer than it
was a few months ago. The parameters necessary for
an end to the crisis are now known to all - namely,
the Minsk agreements. Against all odds, and despite
alternating periods of violence - as we see now - and
quiet, that road map was upheld until last week. It is not
challenged by the parties.

Its implementation remains very difficult. The
discussions in the contact group are too slow and only
lead to modest results. That is due to the significant
distrust that prevails between the Russian and Ukrainian
parties. That state of affairs must be overcome, and we
must encourage each party to have the courage to get
involved.

Upstream, there is now a mechanism for validation
and political impetus: the Normandy format. It seeks
to encourage parties to go further and takes note of the
progress made.

However, much remains to be done, as the situation
on the ground today makes tragically clear. We must
move forward if we want diplomatic dynamics to prevail
over violence and chaos. It seems clear to us that Russia
is reluctant to engage openly and lastingly to normalize
the situation. The recent violence is further evidence of
Russia's capacity to fuel tensions even as a diplomatic
process begins.

We also call on Ukraine to launch a process
leading to institutional reforms giving Donbas greater
autonomy while respecting the sovereignty of Ukraine.
We call once again on Russia to stop the transfer of
arms and individuals across the Russian-Ukrainian
border. We call on Russia to bring all of its influence
to bear on the separatists to ensure that the ceasefire is
fully upheld.

Securing the Russian-Ukrainian border remains
vital to emerging from the crisis. Convoys coming from
Ukraine, the European Union and, of course, Russia
must all be deployed in accordance with Ukrainian law.

Our policy is based on firmness and openness to
dialogue. This holds in New York as elsewhere. Our
resolve is unshakable alongside our European and
American partners.

