Ms. Murmokaite (Lithuania): I would like to
thank Assistant Secretaries-General Oscar Fernandez-
Taranco and Ivan Simonovie for their briefings. We
thank the United Nations human rights monitoring
mission in Ukraine for its work and look forward to
its continued reporting. The monitoring missions of
the United Nations and Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) must be provided with
full, free and unrestricted access to the whole territory
of Ukraine, including Crimea.

Since we last met on the situation in Ukraine (see S/PV.7253), a ceasefire has come into effect, or rather
a "fire and cease", in the interpretation of separatists.
During this period, Ukrainian forces and civilians have
been shelled some 2,000 times, some 90 Ukrainian
servicemen have been killed and 500 have been
wounded. The self-proclaimed Premier of the so-called
Donetsk People's Republic, Zakharchenko, claims that
all of the Donetsk region is theirs, and that they could
take the towns of Berdiansk and Izium, among others.

Russian soldiers continue to die on Ukrainian
soil - soldiers who allegedly are not even there. Yelena
Vasilyeva, the head of a Russian women's group, Cargo
200 from Ukraine to Russia, says that some 4,000
Russian soldiers have lost their lives in Ukraine.

The self-appointed separatist Chieftains in
eastern Ukraine - pawns in the Kremlin's dangerous
Novorossia plan of redrawing Europe's borders - are
wasting no time in causing to erode what was achieved
in Minsk. Relentless attacks by illegal armed groups on
Donetsk airport are a daily reality. The latest reports
of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission speak of the
attempts by separatist armed groups to seize strategic
targets. Sophisticated Russian military equipment,
multiple rocket launchers, tanks and ammunition
continue to cause death and destruction on Ukraine's
soil, and the border remains wide open for the comings
and goings of men in military fatigues and Cossack
uniforms.
As a matter of fact, only one kilometre of the
entire 400-kilometre segment of the border, currently
out of Ukraine's control, is being monitored by the
OSCE. At a meeting of the OSCE Permanent Council
on 22 October, Russia single-handedly blocked the
extension of the OSCE Observer Mission's activities
along the entire border. "We control the border and
we will not let Ukrainian border guards return there.
We do not need any international mediators on the
border, either", says Andrei Purgin, self-proclaimed
First Deputy Prime Minister of the Donetsk People's
Republic, according to Interfax. Indeed, why should
they need an international presence that could witness
illegal flows of military supplies and foreign fighters
or register the fact that Ukraine's coal and equipment
are being smuggled out ofthe country, causing Ukraine
considerable economic and financial damage?

Let us not forget that in August and September,
Russia sent three unchecked humanitarian aid convoys
into Ukraine in clear breach of Ukraine's sovereignty,
without inspection by the Ukrainian authorities and
without coordination with the International Committee
of the Red Cross. Notably, immediately after the entry of
those mystery convoys, the rebels were quick to regain
ground and reverse Ukraine's successes in clearing the
area ofillegal armed groups.

As Ukraine prepares for the critical national
elections on 26 October, the separatists are planning
an election of their own on 2 November - another
sham, illegal and illegitimate election, another cynical
and blatant breach of the Minsk agreements. Russia, so
quick to make accusations against Ukraine, including
long-debunked ones, has not spoken even once against
the multiple violations of the ceasefire by the illegal
militants who continue to enjoy its full support.

The human rights situation in the areas controlled by
Russian-backed armed groups remains of most serious
concern. Extrajudicial killings, torture, intimidation,
public humiliation, ill-treatment, extortion, abductions
for ransom, and forced labour remain the trademarks
of the pro-Russian militants in eastern Ukraine. As the
latest report of the monitoring group indicates, violence
against women in separatist-held areas, including
rape, has reached disturbing proportions. Information
on child soldiers among the militant separatists and
military schools for children points to violations of
international humanitarian law.

The situation of the indigenous Tatar community
in Russia-occupied Crimea continues to deteriorate.
Reported cases of kidnapping, torture and killing
of young male Crimean Tatars, their persecution
and eviction from the Mejlis in Simferopol, and
interrogations of the community's activists continue
unabated. Yet once again, in spite of the multiple
atrocities committed by the illegal separatist groups,
we have yet to hear a single condemnation of those
crimes by Russia. It is quite ironic that Russia, which
has consistently ignored Human Rights Watch reports
on such abuses, including on enforced disappearances
in the Crimea, should now widely quote a Human
Rights Watch report on the alleged use of cluster bombs
in Ukraine. While Ukraine has denied their use, its
joining the Oslo Convention would be the best antidote
to any further speculations to that effect, and we urge
Ukraine to do so.

Contrary to Russia's claims, Ukraine is
demonstrating its commitment to implementing the
Minsk agreements. Life is slowly returning to normal
in areas freed from the illegal insurgents. Important
legislation has been adopted, as noted by Assistant
Secretary-General Simonovie. On 18 October, the law
on the special status of Luhansk and Donetsk came
into effect. We commend Ukraine's commitment to
pursuing the path of difficult but necessary reforms
and strongly encourage the Government to continue
the national dialogue and ensure full inclusion of all
components of the population.

At the same time, we must stress that without Russia's
full cooperation and compliance, the Minsk agreements
will be worth no more than the paper on which they
are written. The only viable solution is one that fully
respects Ukraine's sovereignty, independence, unity
and territorial integrity, including Crimea as an integral
part of Ukraine. Russia must immediately withdraw all
its armed formations, military equipment and fighters
from the territory of Ukraine, stop supporting and
arming the separatists, and unequivocally condemn the
illegal elections planned by the separatist commandos.
Permanent monitoring and verification on both sides of
the Ukrainian-Russian border must be ensured. Russia
should also stop escalating tensions in the wider region.
The recently proposed draft agreement on alliance and
integration between the Russian Federation and the
surrogate republic of Abkhazia is nothing else than a de
facto annexation of an integral part of Georgia.

With thousands of human lives lost and hundreds
of thousands displaced, it is also essential to establish
accountability for the human rights violations and
abuses that have taken place during the war against
Ukraine. Those who have committed serious violations
of international humanitarian and human rights law must
be brought to account. In that respect, we encourage
Ukraine to accede to the International Criminal Court
Statute and accelerate its national efforts to pursue
accountability. We also reiterate our position that those
responsible for the downing of Flight MH-l7, as well
as those who have obstructed access to its crash site
and interfered with the investigation, must be brought
to account.

