The President: I shall now make a statement in my
capacity as the representative of Australia.

I thank our briefers today, including those from
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE), in which we place great confidence
for its indispensable monitoring role on the ground.
We also welcome Ukraine's Permanent Representative,
Ambassador Sergeyev.

Two weeks ago, Assistant Secretary-General for
Political Affairs Fernandez-Taranco told the Council
the Minsk protocols were not being fully implemented
and that the ceasefire was being violated regularly,
causing violent loss of life. He described how the
security situation was hampering the return and
settlement of internally displaced persons, which was
becoming increasingly urgent with the onset of winter.
His report was of concern then, but the situation in
eastern Ukraine has now deteriorated much further.

As Assistant Secretary-General Toyberg-Frandzen
has just told us, the ceasefire is "under continuous
and serious strain" and Minsk is "in jeopardy".
Ambassador Tagliavini spoke of the "blunt disregard
for commitments undertaken in Minsk". We have
seen consistent and credible reports of Russian-
supplied military reinforcements, including heavy
weapons and tanks, moving to the front line of the
conflict in eastern Ukraine. The OSCE Chief Monitor,
Ambassador Apakan, has just described three separate
sightings of such convoys by OSCE monitors.

We must all be seriously concerned at these further
escalations in eastern Ukraine and at Russia's ongoing
violations of the Minsk protocols, particularly its
failure to withdraw all its personnel from Ukraine.
And, in further violation of the Minsk protocols, the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) has been prevented from monitoring adequately
the Ukraine/Russia border, where Russian troops
appear - once again - to be massing in significant
numbers. As Assistant Secretary-General Toyberg-
Frandzen has just told us, failure to secure the border is
a threat to peace. This is all ominously reminiscent of
the situation prior to Russia's purported annexation of
Crimea. We have seen this positioning before.

These recent developments come against the
backdrop of the so-called elections in eastern
Ukraine. These illegitimate, pseudo-elections have
been widely condemned around the world, including
by the Secretary-General. They were another direct
contravention of the Minsk protocol, which clearly
states that elections must be held "in accordance with
the law of Ukraine".

Australia welcomes the legitimate parliamentary
elections that were held in Ukraine on 26 October. It
was encouraging to note the report from the OSCE
affiliated Office for Democratic Institutions and
Human Rights praising the conduct of the Ukrainian
parliamentary elections and the impartial and efficient
Central Election Commission. Australia looks forward
to working with the new Government of Ukraine. It is
wrong, of course, that people in Crimea and many in
the separatist-controlled territories in eastern Ukraine
were unable to exercise their democratic right to vote.
We commend the Ukrainian authorities for their efforts
to enfranchise as many people as possible in these very
difficult circumstances.

The Jordanian representative a few moments ago
mentioned the risk from the deteriorating security
situation to access to the MH-17 crash site. I must
emphasize that Australia remains determined to do
all it can to bring those responsible for the downing of
MH-l7 to justice. We are committed to making a full
international return to the MH-l7 crash site when it
is safe to do so and in the company of our Dutch and
Malaysian partners. We appreciate Russian President
Putin's confirmation to Australian Prime Minister
Tony Abbott yesterday, meeting in Beijing, of Russia's
commitment to resolution 2166 (2014), which we all
adopted in July, including its support for a full, thorough
and independent international investigation into the
cause of the crash, and for ensuring complete access
for international experts to the crash site. This can,
however, happen only if Russian-backed and Russian-
armed separatists comply with the ceasefire.

More broadly, adherence to the ceasefire and to the
commitments made in the Minsk protocol is essential
to move to a lasting political solution in Ukraine, which
must be based on respect for Ukraine's sovereignty and
territorial integrity. But without a genuine engagement
from Russia, this plan will obviously come to nothing.
This brings us back to the root cause of the deteriorating
security situation in Ukraine: Russia's persistent
campaign of deliberate destabilization. Russia's actions
are continuing to fuel the unrest and are undermining
the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. The
Russian economy is already paying a heavy price for
that action, and any further actions can only inevitably
lead to even greater consequences for Russia.

There is a clear path forward to end the violence in
eastern Ukraine: Russia must withdraw all support to

the separatists; remove all its personnel and assets from
Ukraine; and engage in genuine dialogue with Ukraine.
The OSCE must also be allowed to do its job and
monitor unimpeded the Ukraine/Russia border as set
out in the Minsk protocol. Russia's continued refusal to
heed the international community's call to de-escalate
the crisis can only lead to Russia's further isolation.

I now resume my functions as President of the
Security Council.

I now give the floor to the representative of Ukraine.

