We would also like to congratulate the Republic of Korea on its assumption of the presidency of the Security Council for this month. We thank the delegation of Nigeria for all its work as President of the Council last month. And we thank the Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs, Mr. Jeffrey Feltman, for his briefing.

Jordan would like to express its deep concern about the most recent developments in Sloviansk in the east of Ukraine, in addition to the spillover violence in other regions of the country, including in Odessa.
We call upon all parties to demonstrate restraint. We call for a return to calm and for de-escalation and full cooperation with the monitors affiliated with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). We reiterate our appeal for the release of all hostages held by rebels in Sloviansk, including the OSCE monitors.

What is happening today in the east of Ukraine is not civil war, but rather a mutiny. The actions of the rebels, including the ongoing occupation of seized Government buildings, the use of force, the intimidation of civilians and threats to their life and security, are in violation of the law. As Mr. Feltman said, the continuation of those actions runs counter to the letter and spirit of the Geneva agreement signed in April. We reaffirm Ukraine's right to take appropriate and effective measures to halt violations in the eastern part of the country, preserve its unity and sovereignty, safeguard the security of its citizens and uphold constitutional and legal order.

At the same time, we call upon the Ukrainian Government to work towards a peaceful solution to the crisis and respect international norms in dealing with the situation. It is important to uphold the relevant human rights principles and to spare no effort in immediately engaging in dialogue with stakeholders to reach a peaceful solution. We must not lose the opportunity brought about by the Geneva agreement, which is a guarantee for calm in the east of the country and for preserving the territorial unity of Ukraine. We appeal to the stakeholders to implement the agreement and bring pressure to bear on the rebels to end the crisis.

Rebels and all active stakeholders in Ukraine should refrain from racist or hate speech. There is a need to guarantee a return to stability in the country. We call upon all players to help the Ukrainian authorities in their efforts to guarantee success on the political transition process and to start a comprehensive and direct dialogue with all linguistic groups.

Finally, we underscore the importance of respecting the legitimate aspirations of the Ukrainian people and of working tirelessly to ensure that presidential elections are held within the set time frame in May, in line with those aspirations and while ensuring the future that Ukrainian citizens deserve, within the framework of a comprehensive, effective and lasting political process.

