Mr. Rycroft (United Kingdom): I thank Foreign
Minister Steinmeier for his briefing. We look forward
to his return to the Security Council in his capacity as
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany, permanently,
before too long. In the meantime, he has our full
support, both in Vienna and here in New York, in taking
forward the priorities of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) this year.

Like the United Nations, the OSCE was founded
on the principles of dialogue and respect for peace and
stability. Together, the two organizations are therefore
at the forefront of the rules-based international system.
Sadly, as the Council well knows, that system is
seldom left unchallenged, so it is incumbent upon both
organizations to work closely together to advance peace
and security, and in doing so to uphold the Charter of
the United Nations and the Helsinki principles. That
strong cooperation is most clearly seen in our response
to the continuing crisis in Ukraine. At the outset, I
wish to reaffirm the United Kingdom's full support for
Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial
integrity and our commitment to the return of Crimea to
its rightful place as part of Ukraine. I would also like to
take this opportunity to express the United Kingdom's
gratitude for the leading role played by Germany, and
by the German OSCE chairmanship, in the Normandy
group, and in support ofthe Special Monitoring Mission
and the Trilateral Contact Group.

One year since our previous meeting on the OSCE
(see S/PV.7391), can we really say that the overall
situation has changed for the better in the east of
Ukraine? That meeting focused on the regular breaches
of the ceasefire, the use of heavy weapons and the
continued presence ofconvoys crossing the international
border. To that list one can now add the unacceptable
aggression directed against OSCE monitors. I am
saddened and deeply worried to say that, one year later,
we seem no closer to a resolution of the crisis. Since
the crisis began, over 9,000 people have lost their lives,
and over 3 million are now in need of humanitarian
assistance. It is clear that that toll will only continue to
grow unless a truly sustainable ceasefire is put in place
and all sides meet their Minsk commitments in full. To
that end, three clear steps must be taken.

First, it is imperative that the Monitoring Mission,
ably directed by Ambassador Apakan, be permitted to
carry out its mandate in full. The threats and aggressive
behaviour towards monitors must end. The Mission
must have unrestricted access to all of Ukraine,
especially those parts of the border with Russia not
under Ukraine's control. The Russian Federation should
use its influence on the separatists to ensure that that
happens without delay, as they it is obliged to do.

Secondly, while there have been some welcome
exchanges of prisoners over the last year, at least 134
Ukrainian prisoners remain in detention. We again call
on Russia to release all illegally detained Ukrainian
citizens, including those held in Russia and in the
illegally annexed Crimean peninsula. Those include
Nadiya Savchenko and Oleg Sentsov. We also reiterate
that all hostages and illegally detained persons related
to the crisis in and around Ukraine must be released, as
stipulated under the Minsk agreements.
Thirdly, even more important, what is most needed
is a truly sustainable ceasefire and genuine political
will to restore Ukrainian sovereignty. The Russian
Federation must demonstrate that will and live up
to its international commitments. It must withdraw
its weapons and personnel and use its considerable
influence over the separatists to bring an end to the
crisis and prevent the deaths of more people. That is
the best way to end the fear and suffering of ordinary
people in eastern Ukraine and to allow the Ukrainian
Government to focus on much-needed programmes of
governance and reform.

Until those steps are taken, we will be working
with our European Union partners to ensure that
sanctions remain in place. The onus is on Russia to
demonstrate a clear commitment to act in line with the
principles that guide the OSCE, the Council and other
international organizations.

Finally, beyond Ukraine, we in the Security
Council should not lose sight of the need to work closely
with the German OSCE chairmanship to resolve other
issues affecting the region. Those include protecting
fundamental freedoms, which continue to come under
growing pressure in some OSCE States, addressing the
need for greater military transparency and tackling the
protracted conflicts that continue to blight the lives
of people across the OSCE region, most notably in
Georgia. We need dialogue based on respect for, and
the implementation of, commitments. Without that
we face continuing deadlock, which is damaging and
debilitating to all sides. Russian actions in Ukraine cast
a shadow over efforts to build confidence and security
across OSCE States. We must lift that shadow and, as
Foreign Minister Steinmeier said, rebuild trust, renew
dialogue and restore security.

