Mr. Delattre (France) (spoke in French): I thank
Mr. Jens Anders Toyberg-Frandzen for his briefing, and
Ms. Tagliavini and Mr. Apakan for theirs.

Almost a year ago, Ukraine entered into a period
of unprecedented transformation after years of
administrative inefficiencies and political blockage.
This transformation came from deep within Ukrainian
society. Following the presidential election in May,
the Ukrainian parliamentary elections of October 26
represent a new phase in the process of democratization
taking place in Ukraine. The elections neatly confirm
the fundamental choices of the Ukrainian people in
favour of a deep transformation and a deep economic
and social modernization of Ukraine. The forward
march of Ukraine to the rule of law and political
pluralism can continue. The path will be long. Agreed
steps must now be translated into the implementation of
necessary reforms in the areas of the economy, rule of
law, decentralization and reconstruction.

However, since Ukraine has embarked on the path
of reform, it has been constrained in moving forward.
The separatist agitation helped from outside the country
has spread to the eastern part of Ukraine, first in
Crimea - annexed in violation of the law - and then
in the Donbas region, causing disturbances, human
rights violations and a serious humanitarian situation.
We condemn in the strongest terms this interference in
Ukrainian internal affairs, which has taken place with
flagrant disregard for its sovereignty and territorial
integrity. As occurred in Crimea in March, so-called
elections were held on 2 November by the separatists
in the part of Donbas that they occupy. These elections
violate the letter and the spirit of the Minsk protocol,
which provides for local elections in accordance with
Ukrainian law. It is essential to quickly reach full
compliance with the ceasefire and pursue further
negotiations on the provisional status of the regions of
the east.

With the signing of the ceasefire in Minsk on
5 September and an agreement on 19 September, a
diplomatic process was finally set in motion between
Kyiv and Moscow. These agreements remain a good
basis forbringing about an end to the crisis based on three
principles: respect for the ceasefire, monitoring of the
eastern border of Ukraine, and political discussions for
the purposes of finding a lasting solution. The priority
now must be to remain on the path of dialogue and to
continue the implementation of the agreements. Our
goal is to bring Ukrainians, separatists and Russians
to the negotiating table in order to stop the escalation.
That is a crucial aspect of the Minsk protocol.
Military movements last weekend at the Russian-
Ukrainian border, confirmed by the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), are
cause for great alarm in that respect. Several dozens
of military vehicles including tanks entered Ukraine
in recent days. The strengthening of the military
presence of the separatists and the proliferation of troop
movements have raised fears of renewed fighting on a
larger scale. The announcement of the creation of a
Donbas army and a general mobilization is particularly
worrying. The separatists and their supporters must
prove they are ready for dialogue and the search for
peace. In this context, we call once again for Russia to
prevent the transfer of arms and men across its border
and to use all its influence on the separatists so that the
ceasefire is fully respected.

The issue of monitoring the Russian-Ukrainian
border remains a focal point for reaching a political
solution to the crisis. We expressed our readiness to
provide the OSCE with our surveillance capabilities.
The utility of drones has been shown in that they can
be alternative and exclusive sources of information.
We are in discussions with our Russian and Ukrainian
partners on the subject. These discussions are difficult,
but they are crucial if there is to be progress. We
also believe that the mandate of the OSCE mission in
Russian territory should be strengthened and expanded
as quickly as possible to other border posts.

In this context, our political approach is based on
firmness and dialogue. The sanctions are not intended
to punish but to encourage dialogue. Sanctions are a
tool, but they are not the only one. The conclusion of
the negotiations on the supply of natural gas 10 days
ago is a sign that some progress can be achieved
through dialogue. Europe gave a clear alternative -
heavier sanctions if the destabilizing actions continued
and worsened, or a re-examination of the question
if the situation on the ground bears witness to a real
implementation of the agreements of 5 September. It
is high time that we all rally in favour of de-escalation
and the re-establishment of good-neighbourly relations
between independent and sovereign States. No one has
interest to fan the flames and return to the rhetoric of
another century.

