The President: I shall now make a statement in my
capacity as the representative of Ukraine.

I wish to thank Minister Kurz for his comprehensive
presentation of the priorities of the Austrian
chairmanship of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) for 2017. We appreciate
his personal dedication in trying to find effective
responses on the part of the OSCE community to the
significant security threats and challenges confronting
the participating States.

As recognized at the OSCE, the ongoing aggression
by the Russian Federation against Ukraine and its
severe consequences remain among the top threats
to European security. It is important that defusing
tensions and facilitating the resolution of the crisis in
and around Ukraine be identified as priorities of the
Austrian chairmanship. Three years ago, the Russian
Federation effectively violated the United Nations
Charter and all 10 principles of the Helsinki Final Act
by resorting to armed aggression against the sovereign
State of Ukraine, the illegal occupation of Crimea and
hybrid warfare in Donbas. The re-establishment of
full respect for these principles is the way to restore
the security order based on the OSCE process and the
lessons of the Second World War.

We therefore commend the determination of
the Austrian chairmanship to protect the OSCE's
fundamental principles and commitments, as it recently
demonstrated by condemning Russia's unilateral
measures on recognizing the so-called documents
issued by illegal structures in certain areas of the
Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.

These actions on the part of Russia once again
defied the OSCE principles and the Minsk agreements.
We welcome the readiness of the chairmanship to
exercise leadership in performing its functions, which
is so urgently needed in these turbulent times for the
OSCE community.

As the recent spike in hostilities near Avdiivka in
Donbas has shown, the situation in the conflict-affected
areas remains volatile and unpredictable. Escalation is
possible whenever the Russian Federation considers it
politically necessary or just convenient. The military
assault by the hybrid Russian forces on Avdiivka,
accompanied by massive shelling along the entire line of
contact, demonstrated Russia's persistent unwillingness
to honour its Minsk commitments, including their first
provision of a comprehensive and sustainable ceasefire.
Russia's political goal of undermining Ukraine, which
set in motion its aggression against my country three
years ago, remains unchanged. Instead of a full and
good-faith implementation of the Minsk commitments,

Russia is resorting to political and military provocations,
blackmail and political pressure.

We commend the immediate response of the
OSCE chairmanship and the OSCE Special Monitoring
Mission in highlighting the scale of the offensive of the
hybrid Russian forces and of its grave humanitarian
impact. We appreciate the international diplomatic
and political pressure brought to bear on the Russian
Federation to stop the escalation, which has contributed
to some improvement in the security situation in the
conflict area. A persistent focus, in particular at the
OSCE and in the Security Council, on security and
a peaceful resolution is needed to discourage Russia
from future provocations and escalations and to force
it to implement in full the commitments undertaken.

The OSCE, the Trilateral Contact Group and its
humanitarian subgroup should pay particular attention
to achieving the immediate and unconditional release
of Ukrainian citizens who remain illegally detained as
hostages or political prisoners in the occupied areas
of Donbas and in Crimea, as well as in the Russian
Federation. The international community must maintain
a united position in order to secure their release.

The resolution of the crisis in and around Ukraine,
as the Russia-instigated conflict is called in the OSCE,
requires not only a peaceful resolution of the situation
in Donbas, with full respect for Ukraine's sovereignty
and territorial integrity, but also the de-occupation
of the Crimean peninsula, which is an integral part
of Ukraine.

As the illegal occupation continues, so do the gross
violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms
by Russia's occupation authorities.

In its resolution 71/205, entitled "Situation ofhuman
rights in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the
city of Sevastopol (Ukraine)", adopted on 19 December
2016, the General Assembly was absolutely clear
about the extrajudicial killings, abductions, enforced
disappearances, politically motivated prosecutions,
discrimination, harassment, intimidation, violence,
arbitrary detention, torture and ill-treatment against
the residents of Crimea. The freedoms of expression,
religion or belief and association and the right to
peaceful assembly have been suppressed.

We must use all of the diplomatic assets and

international instruments at our disposal to make sure
that Crimea does not become an exclusion zone with
regard to basic human rights. We encourage the OSCE
chairmanship and institutions to pay close attention to
the people in the occupied territory and to the alleviation
of their plight.

We welcome the intention of the Austrian
chairmanship to strengthen the OSCE as an organization
that can effectively and in a timely manner fulfil the
tasks entrusted to it by participating States.

The implementation of the Minsk agreements and
the OSCE's role in terms of monitoring, verification
and mediation require adequate resources. We
encourage Minister Kurz's support for the efforts of the
Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine to facilitate the
resolution of the conflict in Donbas, which was started
by Russia. Among the immediate tasks are ensuring
the effectiveness of the monitoring and verification
of the ceasefire and of the withdrawal of weapons,
and the establishment of permanent monitoring at
the uncontrolled segment of the Ukrainian-Russian
State border, as set out in the Minsk agreements.
The Mission's monitoring capabilities should be
strengthened through increased use of high-technology
equipment, including unmanned aerial vehicles,
cameras and night-vision equipment.

Special Monitoring Mission monitors face
restrictions on movement and intimidation by the
hybrid Russian forces in Donbas in their everyday
activities. This is quite alarming. We encourage further
discussions under the Austrian chairmanship on how
to ensure security before, during and after the local
elections in Donbas as a key element of the political
settlement of the conflict, which will be possible only
after all the necessary security prerequisites have been
put in place.

We welcome and support the Austrian chairmanship's
priorities on strengthening instruments for conflict
prevention and resolution, modernizing OSCE
confidence- and security-building measures and
launching a structured dialogue addressing the
prevailing threats and the possible way forward.

My country is suffering as a result of terrorism and
the terrorist groups regularly sent from the Russian
Federation into Donbas through the uncontrolled
segment of the State border with Ukraine. We are
therefore interested in a sustained focus on the practical
implementation of the counter-terrorism declaration
adopted in Hamburg, as well as in strengthening border
security, including by countering the phenomenon of
foreign terrorist fighters and other non-State actors.
We see benefit in fostering international cooperation
in these areas. In the meantime, Ukraine will continue
to take legal steps to counter terrorist activity on its
territory, in particular by bringing terrorists to justice
and by submitting to the International Court of Justice
the case of Russia's violation of the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing
of Terrorism.

We support the intention of the Austrian
chairmanship to dedicate special attention to
cybersecurity and the further development of
confidence- and security-building measures in the
area. Ukraine is ready to share its own experience in
investigating and countering cyberattacks on critical
energy infrastructure.

The human dimension is at the core of the OSCE
concept of comprehensive security. We support the
Austrian chairmanship's determination to promote
enhanced implementation of respective commitments,
including in such areas as freedom of assembly and
association, freedom of media and expression, freedom
of religion or belief, tolerance and non-discrimination.
Strengthened cooperation with civil society should
be an integral part of these efforts. We believe that
such thematic issues as countering State propaganda,
eradicating the phenomenon of political prisoners,
combating torture and forced disappearances, and
ensuring the rights of internally displaced persons and
refugees should stay high on the OSCE agenda. There
can be no security without respect to human dignity,
the rule of law and fundamental human rights.

In conclusion, let me wish Austria a successful
chairmanship and practical outcomes in addressing key
security threats and challenges that undermine peace
and stability in the OSCE space.

I now resume my functions as President of the
Security Council.

The meeting rose at 11.40 am.
