Mr. Sergeyev (Ukraine): I would like to take this
opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, on
your effective leadership of the Council for the month
of January. Since this is the first time my delegation
has taken the floor this year, I would also like to
congratulate the new members - Angola, Malaysia,
New Zealand, Spain and Venezuela - on their election
to the Council. I am grateful to you, Sir, for convening
this meeting, and would also like to thank Under-
Secretary-General Feltman for his briefing.

It has been almost a year since the events of
February and March 2014, when the Russian Federation
manipulated two of the basic principles of the United
Nations - the right to self-determination and the right
to protection - in order to create a fake legal pretext
for invading Ukraine. As a result, it occupied and then
annexed part of the sovereign territory of Ukraine,
the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of
Sevastopol. Sooner or later the Russian Federation
will be brought to justice for that particular crime of
aggression against Ukraine.

As oftoday, the Russian Federation is continuing its
military aggression in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions
of Ukraine by sending military units into our territory,
delivering heavy weapons to the local terrorist groups,
training, equipping and financing mercenaries and
waging an information war. That aggression is aimed at
forcing my Government to change its constitutional and
territorial order, thereby undermining the territorial
integrity and political sovereignty of Ukraine.

Every day of the past year has been traumatic
for the Ukrainian people. On 8 June, militants from
the so-called Donetsk People's Republic tortured and
killed eight priests and parishioners of the Protestant
church in the Ukrainian city of Slovyansk. On 17 July,
Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17 was brought down
from a zone controlled by the terrorists. Last week,
on 13 January, terrorists fired on a passenger bus
near the Ukrainian town of Volnovakha, killing 13
and wounding 15 Ukrainian civilians. The ongoing
investigation of that tragic terrorist attack on civilians
near Volnovakha, and the relevant conclusions of the
Special Monitoring Mission of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe, prove that the
shelling was carried out from the north-north-eastern
areas currently occupied by illegal armed groups. I
would like to take this opportunity to express Ukraine's
appreciation for the Council's strong condemnation
of that terrorist act. My country is waging a war
against terrorism. It is fighting on the front lines for
such universal values as freedom, sovereignty and
democracy.

In the wake of the Minsk agreements of 5 and
19 September 2014, the President of Ukraine declared
a ceasefire and began to implement all points, without
exception, ofthe agreement signed by the representatives
of Ukraine, Russia and the rebels. Despite the fact that
they are signatories to the agreements, the Russian side
and Russian-backed terrorists have persistently and
brutally violated the Minsk provisions. With Russia's
backing, and in breach of the Minsk arrangements,
the illegal armed groups have occupied more than 550
square kilometres since September. As a result of the
terrorists' lack of compliance with the ceasefire regime,
during this period Ukraine has lost 237 military troops
and at least 148 civilians. In contravention of the
ceasefire regime, the shelling of Ukrainian positions
has increased. In particular, in the past 10 days alone
the total shelling has surpassed the numbers for the
whole of the previous month.

Since signing the Minsk agreements in September,
the Russian side has significantly increased its military
presence in Donbas and has filled the region with highly
sophisticated heavy weapons. The terrorists recently
announced that they have created their own air force.
We presume that is a manoeuvre to cover up the future
deployment and use of Russian military aircraft in
action. The build-up of Russian troops at the Ukrainian
border has also increased and has now reached 50,000.

With your permission, Mr. President, I would like
to say a few words in Russian.

(spoke in Russian)

What is a battalion of the 76th Airborne Division
from Pskov doing in the residential areas of Heorhiivka
and Komachova? What is a battalion doing in the
residential areas of Pobeda and Hryhorivka?

(spoke in English)
A battalion is around 400 or 500 men.
(spoke in Russian)

What is a separate air-assault brigade from
Ulyanovsk doing in the area of Starobeshevo? There
is a battalion from the 76th Motorized Brigade from
Maikop and the 49th Brigade from Stavropol. What are
armed units from Volgograd, Kaliningrad, Kostroma,
Shilovo, Yurga, Aleysk, Gusinoozyorsk, Pecheneg,
Sputnik, Novorossiysk, Tula, Naro-Fominsk and
elsewhere in Ukraine? These amount to more than
8,000 troops. Are they on vacation, as we have heard
many times in clarification from the Russian side? Do
their families know where they are?

(spoke in English)

Russia officially denies sending troops, but the
Russian families of troops killed tell a different story.
What is this if not aggression? We again draw the
Council's attention to the fact that the illegal armed
groups intensified their attacks and shelling after
receiving reinforcements from the territory of the
Russian Federation, including in the form of Russia's
so-called humanitarian convoys. We denounce the
provocative statements made by Russian officials, who
have tried to shift responsibility for violations onto
Ukraine, including those which the Russian delegation
has made to the Security Council today. I do not have any
intention of continually commenting on or of repeating
the disinformation concerning the implementation
of the Minsk agreements by my Government or the
measures the Government of Ukraine has taken to meet
the needs ofthe Ukrainian citizens in Donbas. Recently,
we helped disseminate information on that issue to all
members of the Security Council.

Even despite the intensification of foreign
aggression, Ukraine remains fully committed to a
peaceful settlement of the crisis, which should be
based on the Minsk agreements and on full respect
for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and political
unity of Ukraine. We have twice initiated a ceasefire
and unilaterally adhered to it. On 13 November
2014, representatives of Ukraine and Russia signed
a working document envisaging a clear schedule for
the implementation of the provisions of the Minsk
agreements, in particular concerning assurances of the
bilateral ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons
and return to the touch-line. The Russian side recalled
its signature under that document.

On 18 January, Ukraine once again reiterated its
appeal to the Russian Federation and suggested that
Russia should sign the timetable for the implementation
of the Minsk agreements, as worded on 13 November
2014, and to ensure that the ceasefire would start on
19 January. We believe that it will allow us to immediately
resume the ceasefire and to protect civilians from the
attacks carried out by the militants in the region in
the course of the past four months. The beginning of
the strict implementation of the document will create
appropriate conditions for holding consultations of the
trilateral contact group in the near future, and later
the summit of Heads of State and Government to be
held in Astana. We demand that the plan be finally
implemented.

As was stated by the President of Ukraine, Mr. Petro
Poroshenko, despite the escalation of pressure and the
activation of terrorists, Ukraine is ready to sign the
ceasefire agreement, given our full adherence to the
Minsk agreements. Ukraine is striving for peace. We still
expect the same commitment to the Minsk agreements
on the part of the Russian side. After all, it is the
President of the Russian Federation who has repeatedly
confirmed his adherence to the implementation of
the Minsk agreements in their full scope and without
exception. That position was affirmed, inter alia, at the
multilateral summit in Milan.

We sincerely thank all our partners for their
solidarity with us at this crucial time for Ukraine,
Europe, the Security Council and the world. We thank
those who have expressed strong support today for the
release of the Ukrainian pilot Nadiya Savachenko, who
is illegally detained in Russia.

