Mr. Sergeyev (Ukraine): I wish to start by thanking
all of the briefers for the information they brought
back from the ground. I thank Mr. Toyberg-Frandzen
and our colleagues the Ambassadors for their political
observations. Ialso thank the Security Council forhaving
responded to my letter of 7 November (S/2014/798) and
convened today's meeting. In that letter, I drew the
attention of the Council to the dangerously deteriorating
security situation in the eastern part of Ukraine, which
threatens our territorial integrity and shows a tendency
to transform into a "frozen conflict", and thus continues
to be a challenge to peace and stability in the whole of
Europe and beyond.

I should like to take this opportunity to thank all
present for the solidarity that they have demonstrated
today and in the past and for their constant support
for our territorial integrity and the inviolability of our
borders.

Ukraine remains devoted to the settlement of the
conflict through diplomatic means. The establishment
of a Trilateral Contact Group of senior representatives
of Ukraine, the Russian Federation and the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
Chairman-in-Office is aimed at finding a political
and diplomatic solution to the crisis. The Group
held several meetings, including those in Minsk, on
5 and 19 September. The agreements reached at those
meetings - a protocol and a memorandum dated 5 and
19 September, respectively - were supposed to become
an important step towards a sustainable, mutually
agreed ceasefire, a secure Russian/Ukrainian border
and the return of peace and stability to eastern Ukraine,
with the establishment of a special status zone, which
is to be empowered with strong local self-government
under Ukrainian law.

The commitment to the implementation of the
agreements was confirmed during the high-level
meeting held in Milan on 17 October, in which the
President of the Russian Federation participated.
Despite their claims, the separatists and the Russian
Federation, as their sponsor, continue to commit
gross violations of the Minsk agreements. Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, for his part, has expressed his
disappointment and called upon the parties involved to
fulfil their obligations.

I agree with what my Russian colleague said
earlier, that in Russian the word "truth" has no plural
form but that the word "lie" does. In that regard, I wish
to draw the Council's attention to a few major points
concerning violations of the Minsk agreements.

The first point is that we agreed in Minsk on an
immediate bilateral ceasefire and the withdrawal of
illegal armed groups, military equipment and fighters
and mercenaries from the territory of Ukraine. What
happened instead? In breach of all of the agreements,
militants backed by Russian regular forces continue
to shell the Ukrainian military as well as civilian
locations, in particular using Grad and Smerch systems.
Since 5 September, Ukrainian forces and civilians have
been shelled over 2,800 times. A total of 131 Ukrainian
servicemen have been killed and more than 568 have
been wounded. At least 65 civilians lost their lives.

Militants inspired by Russia are disregarding
efforts to set up the touchline and continue to conduct
offensive operations, trying to expand the area under
their control. The large-scale recruitment and training
of militants is taking place in the area of Donbas,
which is temporarily out of Ukrainian Government
control, as well as on the Russian side of the border.
An offensive is expected in a number of locations
along the touchline. We cannot exclude the possibility
of an attempt to create a land corridor from Russia to
temporarily occupied Crimea.

Another clear indication of violation of the Minsk
agreements is the large amount of heavy weaponry, along
with personnel and fuel, that after 5 September illegally
entered Ukraine from Russian territory. A dangerous
shipment of illegal armament supplies from Russia to
militants was observed by Ukraine and the OSCE in the
past few days. On 6 November, Ukrainian authorities
detected the large-scale movement of heavy weaponry
from Russian territory to the town of Krasny Luch in
Ukraine: two columns, including 32 tanks, 16 howitzers
and 30 Kamaz trucks, with soldiers and ammunition.
The OSCE confirmed on 8 November the movement of
two columns of 50 fully loaded trucks. Almost every
truck had an artillery mount in tow. On 9 November,
the OSCE recorded a convoy of 17 trucks 15 kilometres
to the east of Donetsk. Five trucks transported Grad
systems. On 10 November, the OSCE spotted another
convoy of 17 trucks that supplied the terrorists with
122-millimetre howitzers and radio-location stations.
On the same day, a second convoy of trucks, three of
which carried radio-location stations, illegally crossed
the border. Yesterday, the OSCE recorded a convoy of
43 trucks in the eastern part of Donetsk. Five of these
trucks carried 122-millimetre howitzers and five others
carried Grads. A Pantsir-l anti-aircraft missile and
gun system was spotted in the vicinity of the militants'
checkpoint near the town of Novoazovsk.

Illegal Russian convoys with heavy weapons are
reported literally every day. The Russian delegation
insisted today that its Government does not provide any
military assistance to the separatists in Ukraine. This
means that someone else besides the State has missiles,
tanks and guns, and is supplying them to the illegal
armed groups in Ukraine. It means that somebody else
in Russia has attack aircraft and helicopters that are
continually violating our State air border. The Russian
delegation keeps saying that the Russian armed forces
and military equipment have never crossed the borders
of Ukraine. Does this mean that it is not the Russian
Federation's border guard that controls its side of
the Ukraine-Russia border, but someone else who is
permitting the illegal crossing of military convoys?

We have heard many times, here and from Moscow,
about their readiness to withdraw the vast amount of
arms and troops from the borders of Ukraine. Today,
we have all the evidence we need to conclude that
Ukraine is surrounded by a huge amount of armaments
and troops. We demand that Russia explain here and
now why it needs to maintain 200 tanks, 1,600 vehicles,
640 artillery units, 191 attack aircraft and 121 attack
helicopters on our borders. Still, neither Ukraine nor
the OSCE has received any kind of explanation.

The illegal movement of cargo from the territory
of the Russian Federation through the State border,
which the Russian delegation today characterized as
humanitarian aid, to the civilians of the Donetsk and
Luhansk regions, is also a matter of deep concern to
Ukraine. It was organized without seeking the official
consent of the Ukrainian side, without completing the
necessary border and customs procedures by the relevant
Ukrainian authorities, and without coordinating with
the International Committee of the Red Cross for its
representatives to accompany the cargo, in breach of
the national legislation of Ukraine and the agreements
reached earlier. The latest so-called humanitarian
convoys crossed the State border of Ukraine on
31 October and 2 and 4 November. We demand that the
Russian Federation stop using the issue of humanitarian
aid as a cover for delivering illegal supplies of troops,
mercenaries and weapons to eastern Ukraine.

Contrary to these hostile actions and Russian
propaganda myths, Ukrainian forces are observing
the ceasefire regime. They make every effort to avoid
full-scale military actions and use weapons only to
defend themselves against militants' attacks. Let me
say very clearly that the only reason why open war
has not started yet in the east of Ukraine is because of
Ukraine's restraint. We remain committed to a peaceful
settlement and the Minsk arrangements, and urge
Russia to do the same.

We agreed in Minsk that the OSCE would ensure
the monitoring and verification of the ceasefire. We
also agreed to that the OSCE would ensure the ongoing
monitoring and verification of the Ukrainian-Russian
border, and envisaged the creation of security zones
in the border regions of Ukraine and the Russian
Federation. Where are we with that? Ukraine has
rendered all necessary assistance to the OSCE Special
Monitoring Mission in Ukraine to effectively implement
its mandate.

Russian-supported militants have not extended
security guarantees to OSCE personnel in all areas that
they control, and obstruct the Mission's monitoring
activities. Moreover, in order to hide its violations,
the Russian military uses cutting-edge electronic
technology to jam OSCE drones, thereby disturbing
monitoring efforts in the region in spite of the Minsk
agreements. The Russian side has also refused tojoin the
consensus on the proposed expansion of the mandate of
the existing OSCE observation mission at two Russian
border checkpoints to all Russian checkpoints along the
400-kilometre section of the border in the Donetsk and
Luhansk regions.

With the Mission's mandate set to expire on
23 November, we urge the Russian side to demonstrate
a clear commitment to the peaceful resolution of the
crisis in the eastern Ukraine by agreeing to allow OSCE
observers to conduct their monitoring activities at all
border crossings with Ukraine and along the entire
length of the border in the area. That would contribute to
establishing effective border verification by the OSCE,
as foreseen in the Minsk agreements. Why is there such
a stark difference in the approaches adopted by Ukraine
and Russia to the role that the OSCE monitors can play
in the current situation? Ukraine is open to transparent
monitoring and control. Russia and its puppets are not.

Let me turn to my third point. We agreed in
Minsk to adopt the Ukrainian law on provisional
arrangements for local government in some areas of
Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts - the law on special
status - and to ensure within the provisions of that
law early local elections in some areas of Donetsk and
Luhansk oblasts. The new law was adopted by the
Ukrainian Parliament on 16 September. According
to that law, local elections in some areas of Donetsk
and Luhansk regions were scheduled for 7 December
and were intended to produce legitimate local self-
governance that would make proper use of enhanced
powers, engage in an inclusive national dialogue and
ensure the reconstruction of Donbas, which has been
severely damaged by the military activities of illegal
armed groups. Ukraine rejects any rumours about
alleged additional agreements on this issue. What was
agreed was signed and what was signed was published,
including the OSCE press releases.

Contrary to this, on 2 November Russian-backed
terrorists held illegitimate elections for the so-called
presidents and parliaments of illegitimate self-
proclaimed entities in certain areas of the Donetsk
and Luhansk regions. These so-called elections were
conducted in violation of Ukrainian legislation and
international standards and contrary to the third and
ninth articles of the Minsk protocol. By opting to
recognize the illegal and illegitimate so-called elections
in certain areas of Donbas, Russia has chosen time and
again to violate the norms of international law and
fundamental OSCE principles and commitments. It has
chosen to act in breach of the Minsk agreements.

We are very concerned by the approach of the
Russian Federation that consists in manipulating
peoples' right to self-determination. Once again, it
has, as we saw in Crimea, only one priority - to feed
separatism and create frozen conflicts in sovereign
States that Russia treats as zones of national interest.
That is why neither Ukraine nor the international
community will ever recognize the illegal referendum
in Crimea or the illegal pseudo-elections in certain
areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, whatever
their outcomes.

The Ukrainian leadership has already expressed its
deep concern over the violation of the Minsk agreements
by Russia and the ring-leaders under its control in eastern
Ukraine. Illegal elections and continuous violations of
the ceasefire regime by militants, as well as a sharp
increase in the illegal supply of weapons and military
equipment across the border by the Russian Federation,
have seriously undermined the Minsk process towards
a peaceful settlement. They undermine any trust placed
in signatories who fail to keep their word. Nevertheless,
Kyiv has confirmed its commitment to continuing to
observe the ceasefire regime in line with the Minsk
agreements, and called on all involved in the process to
swiftly resume settlement efforts.

We are seeking to make use of all possible
mechanisms to forge a peaceful solution to the situation.
We call on Russia, the European Union and the United
States to meet together in the Geneva format in order to
send a clear and consolidated message as well as strong
impetus to the parties concerned to strictly adhere to
the letter and spirit of the Minsk agreements. However,
we will not yield to Russia's attempts to compel implicit
international recognition of the ring leaders of illegal
entities in the Donbas by inviting them to this meeting.
We continue to demand that the Russian Federation
stop backing illegal armed groups; immediately
and strictly comply with the Minsk agreements by
withdrawing its military forces and weaponry from
the territory of Ukraine; establish joint customs and
border control; release all Ukrainian hostages captured
by Russian forces and their proxies; and stop its
protracted military exercise in close vicinity to our
borders. We continue to call on the Council to finally
assume its Charter responsibility for the maintenance
of international peace and security in order to put an
end to the Russian aggression against Ukraine.

