Mr. Pressman (United States of America): I
certainly understand the desire of the representative of
the Russian Federation to speak about other conflicts
and other crises, rather than the situation and their
tactics of continuing to support the separatists who are
wreaking havoc in Ukraine. It seems that while Russia
continues the same tactics of supporting the separatists
in Ukraine, it also continues its same tactics in the
Council - distracting and demonstrating a repeated
preference for fantasy over fact.

So let us be clear. It has been claimed that the
Russian Federation is striving for implementation of the
Minsk agreements. In fact, Russia and the separatists it
supports have taken practically no steps to implement
the September Minsk agreements. For example, attacks
are continuing past the agreed ceasefire line. Weapons,
heavy artillery and military personnel continue to flow
across the border from Russia to the separatists. The
border remains unsecured and hostages are still being
held, including on Russian territory.

Meanwhile, Ukraine has taken great strides to
implement the provisions of the 5 September Minsk
protocol, including twice declaring a unilateral
ceasefire as separatists continued to fire. It has been
claimed that Ukraine is building up its military
presence and resorting to militarization. In fact,
Ukraine is attempting to hold the ceasefire line agreed
to on 19 September. The fact that the Russian-backed
separatists have decided to ignore the line and try to
take additional territory does not provide a basis to
renegotiate that line. The line should not be renegotiated
because the separatists have gained additional territory
through repeated ceasefire violations since September.

It has been claimed that the Donetsk airport, under
the Minsk agreements, should be under the control of
the Russian-backed separatists. In fact, according to
the 19 September Minsk agreement, the line of contact
should go straight through the Donetsk airport and the
agreement stipulated that all forces would draw back at
least 15 kilometers on both sides of the ceasefire line.
The airport would have remained neutral territory had
the Minsk agreements been properly implemented. The
19 September agreement laid out specific coordinates.
There should be no confusion that cannot be resolved
with a GPS.

The representative of the Russian Federation claims
that Ukraine will not respond to President Putin's latest
proposal. In fact, there is no need to renegotiate a new
peace plan or a new ceasefire line. The September Minsk
agreements, which provide for a cessation of fighting,
permanent international monitoring of the border, the
removal of all Russian equipment and personnel from
the Ukrainian territory, the release of all hostages, and
increased autonomy for the region within Ukrainian
law, remain the best path to de-escalating the conflict.

What the Russians seem to be doing is not to
implement Minsk, but to redraft the line of control
articulated in it. Russia and the separatists it supports
should fulfil the commitments they made in September,
rather than attempt to reopen negotiations while
increasing the level of violence and attacks to change
the facts on the ground. We need more facts, less
fantasy. We need more implementation of Minsk, not
more distractions from it.

