Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) (spoke in Chinese): I would
like to thank Under-Secretary-General Feltman for his
briefing.

The current situation in eastern Ukraine remains
turbulent, with an increase in armed clashes and acts
of violence resulting in human casualties and the
destruction of property. China is deeply worried and
concerned about the situation. The top priorities now
are to effectively and comprehensively implement the
Minsk agreements by all parties concerned, to stay calm
and exercise restraint, to prevent further escalation of
the conflict and confrontation and to achieve as soon as
possible a ceasefire and cessation of violence in eastern
Ukraine.

China believes that a political solution is the only
way to settle the Ukrainian issue. The crisis in Ukraine
is rooted in complex historical facts and contemporary
causes. A fundamental solution of the Ukrainian issue
lies in fully taking into account the legitimate rights
and aspirations of all regions and ethnic groups of
Ukraine, while addressing the reasonable concerns of
all the parties involved so that their interests can be
balanced.

China welcomes and supports the recent positive
efforts of the relevant parties to push for a political
solution to the Ukrainian issue and hopes that they
will join hands, fully take into account the legitimate
interests and reasonable concerns of each side and,
through such mediation mechanisms as the Normandy
and Minsk formats, and find a comprehensive,
balanced and lasting political settlement as soon as
possible in order to achieve peace, security, stability
and development in Ukraine, as well as in the region
as a whole.

It is China's long-standing position to respect the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries.
We support all actions conducive to the holding of
dialogues and consultations in search of a political
solution to the Ukrainian crisis. We will maintain our
just and objective position by playing a positive and
constructive role in finding a political solution to the
Ukrainian issue.

