Mr. Pressman (United States of America): I
would like to begin by thanking by thanking the
Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Foreign Minister
Steinmeier, for his briefing and for being here with us
today. We know that the partnership between the OSCE
and the United Nations remains strong and we welcome
the opportunity to hear about Germany's priorities in
2016 to advance the OSCE's efforts in support of peace
and security.

At the Astana summit just over five years ago, all
57 OSCE members recommitted to the principles and
values enshrined in the OSCE common documents,
including that all OSCE norms, principles and
commitments apply equally and without exception to
each participating State and that we are accountable to
our citizens and responsible to each other for their full
implementation. Today, the principles and commitments
embodied by the OSCE face some serious challenges,
both from inside and outside the organization. From
within, there is an uneven application of the Helsinki
norms, principles and commitments, where some States
are re-exerting a sphere of influence at the expense of
other States, while, from without, regional crises and
transnational threats are proliferating.

Efforts to resolve the conflict in Ukraine and the
protracted conflicts in Moldova, Georgia and Nagorno
Karabakh continue to face very frustrating obstacles.
We commend the Chairperson-in-Office's efforts in
support of resolving the crisis in Ukraine, including
his leadership in obtaining an extension of the mandate
of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine
through 31 March 2017. The roles of both the OSCE
Monitoring Mission and the Trilateral Contact Group
are essential to restoring peace to Ukraine, and the full
implementation of the Minsk agreements, including
the ceasefire and weapons pullback, is critical.
The Monitoring Mission and also plays a critical
role in assessing the humanitarian situation on the
ground and facilitating the delivery of much-needed
humanitarian aid.

The increase in violence along the line of contact
in eastern Ukraine is of enormous concern - the worst
since the ceasefire declaration of 1 September 2015.
OSCE monitoring reports indicate that the number of
ceasefire violations continues to rise - onjust one day,
24 February, monitors registered nearly 850 explosions
and firing of small and heavy weapons. The OSCE has
also documented the movement of heavy weapons out
of designated storage sites and placed in areas off-limits
under the Minsk agreements.

When the Special Monitoring Mission was
established, in March 2014, all 57 OSCE participating
States agreed that "Mission members will have safe
and secure access throughout Ukraine". Yet, more than
a year after the signing of the Minsk memorandum
and protocol and the Minsk implementation package,
Russian-backed separatists do not allow OSCE
observers full access to all areas to monitor and verify
the maintenance of the ceasefire, the withdrawal of
heavy weapons and the presence of foreign fighters.
Russian-backed separatist forces have repeatedly
barred the Monitoring Mission from inspecting heavy
weapons storage sites. Furthermore, the separatist
routinely denied the Mission access to the Ukrainian-
Russian border, while Russia unilaterally blocks the
expansion of the OSCE border observation mission
beyond the two current small checkpoints.

According to OSCE reports, movement restrictions
on the Special Monitoring Mission often go hand-in-hand
with weapons Violations and have overwhelmingly
occurred on the separatist side of the line of contact.
In addition, the separatists continue to make direct
threats against the Mission itself. On 15 February, near
Kominternove, they once again threatened to shoot
Mission members, which is the third such incident
since January. The United States reiterates its call on
Russia to direct the separatists it supports and supplies
to immediately honour the ceasefire, withdraw heavy
weapons visibly and verifiably, return those weapons to
their designated storage sites and end restrictions on the
movements and activities of the Monitoring Mission.
The United States strongly supports the OSCE's
efforts to support a peaceful resolution of long-standing
conflicts, such as its mission to broker a comprehensive
settlement to the Transnistria conflict by facilitating
direct dialogue between the sides and by supporting
confidence-building measures. But in Transnistria, like
in Donbas, local so-called authorities refuse to grant
OSCE monitors unfettered access to do their important
work. The United States calls for unrestricted access
for the OSCE Mission to Moldova throughout the
country, including the Transnistrian region, so that it
can perform its activities and fulfil its mandate.

The OSCE continues its dedicated support of a
negotiated settlement ofthe Nagorno Karabakh conflict.
Regrettably, violence along the line of contact and the
Armenia-Azerbaijan State border has escalated over
the past several months. The United States condemns
the use of mortars and other heavy weaponry, which
have caused civilian casualties, and appeals to the
sides to take immediate steps to reduce tensions and
protect lives. The status quo is neither acceptable nor
sustainable. We remind the sides that there can be no
military solution to this conflict. As a Chair ofthe OSCE
Minsk group, the United States will continue to work
closely with the sides to achieve a lasting, negotiated
settlement of the Nagorno Karabakh conflict based on
the principles of international law, the Charter of the
United Nations and the Helsinki Final Act.

The United States fully supports Georgia's
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. We
urge the Russian Government to withdraw its troops to
pre-war positions and allow humanitarian agencies and
the European Union Monitoring Mission unfettered
access in the occupied territories there. As a participant
in the Geneva international discussions along with
the OSCE and the United Nations, the United States
remains committed to working with the parties and the
other Chairs to improve the security and humanitarian
situation for all residents of Georgia affected by
the conflict.

There is an immediate need for coordinated response
to the migration and refugee crisis in the OSCE region
and beyond. Addressing the impact of the large numbers
of migrants arriving in Europe requires rights-based
responses to the challenges of migration, including by
prioritizing respect for the human rights of migrants,
refugees and asylum seekers, and by developing the
capacity of Governments to integrate new arrivals and
counter anti-migrant sentiment, xenophobia and hate
crimes. The OSCE continues to play a vital role in that
regard, and the OSCE's role in support of the global
effort to address weapons proliferation, including
through implementation of resolution 1540 (2004), is
critical. We strongly support the commitment of the
OSCE to strengthen member States' commitments to
implementing the provisions of resolution 1325 (2000)
in order to increase the role of women in peacemaking
and peacebuilding and to end violence against women
in conflict.

The fundamental commitments of the OSCE have
provided clarity, stability and continuity to participating
States for more than 35 years in our common effort to
promote comprehensive security throughout the Euro-
Atlantic and Eurasian regions. We must all continue
to implement our mutual commitments. We value the
deepening cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations and the OSCE to that end.

