Mr. Oh Joon (Republic of Korea): I would like
to thank Mr. Toyberg-Frandzen, Ambassador Apakan
and Ambassador Tagliavini for their briefings on the
situation in eastern Ukraine.

We are acutely alarmed by the observations
reported by the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission,
detailing the influx of military equipment, weapons
and armed personnel into the region of Ukraine held
by armed rebel groups. It represents a clear violation
of the Minsk agreements, a serious encroachment on
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine,
and a challenge to the future of the country. The Minsk
protocol and memorandum of September offered the
basis for hope towards a peaceful and viable resolution
of the crisis. They provided the parties concerned with
a measure of political space to build upon. However,
such early hopes have turned into worries that the
conflict may again escalate. The withdrawal of foreign
troops and military equipment under OSCE monitoring
is an integral part of the Minsk agreements, which must
be fully implemented. We urge all concerned parties to
stop any provocative actions that may derail the fragile
peace process, as embodied in the Minsk agreements.
All outside military intervention in the situation must
cease immediately.

Regarding political developments in the country,
we welcome the holding of parliamentary elections on
26 October, which proved to be orderly and peaceful.
We very much hope that the election results, together
with national reconciliation and a process of dialogue,
will pave the way for much needed stability throughout
the country. In that regard, the separate elections held
by armed rebel groups in eastern Ukraine earlier this
month run counter to the spirit of a dialogue-based
resolution of the situation. They also undermine
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.
We hope that the political track based on the Minsk
agreements can be restored and put back into force as
soon as possible.

We commend the role of OSCE, the United Nations
and other partners in seeking a peaceful political
resolution of the situation, and we stand ready to
support such efforts.

