Mr. Sergeyev (Ukraine): Thank you for convening
today's urgent meeting, Mr. President. I would also
like to thank Under-Secretary-General Feltman for his
briefing, and all those here whose statements supported
Ukraine and expressed sympathy with my people.

Unfortunately, since the previous Security Council
meeting on Ukraine on 21 January, (see S/PV.7365)
the situation there has deteriorated significantly. On
24 January, Russian-backed terrorists committed
another heinous crime against humanity. As a result of
the shelling of residential areas in Mariupol, in eastern
Ukraine, 30 civilians were killed and more than 100
wounded. According to the 24 January spot report
of the Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,
the bombardment was carried out using multiple Grad
and Uragan rockets launched from inside terrorist-
controlled territory. The shelling of Mariupol began
just after statements by one of the terrorist leaders
about imminent attacks on Ukrainian cities, as well as a
significant increase in inflows of Russian armed forces
and weapons into the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. As
the President of Ukraine stated,

"The bloody murder of dozens of civilians
and injuries to almost 100 people by pro-Russian
terrorists in Mariupol not only constitute a terrorist
attack, they are a crime against humanity, and thus
an issue to be considered by the tribunal in The
Hague".

Yesterday was yet another day of mourning
in Ukraine. We express our gratitude to the whole
civilized world for its strong solidarity with Ukraine
in the wake of this horrible tragedy, for the deepest
sympathy and condolences to the families ofthe victims
and for the wishes for a swift recovery of those injured.
Ukraine appreciates the Secretary-General's clear and
unambiguous statement denouncing the unilateral
withdrawal from the ceasefire by the so-called rebel
leadership.

In that respect, it is highly regretful that one of the
permanent members of the Security Council, bestowed
by the Charter of the United Nations with the primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international
peace and security, has once again showed its utter
disrespect, not only of the Charter but of human values,

by blocking the Council's condemnation of the heinous
crimes against humanity committed by terrorists in
Mariupol.

Today's statement delivered by the Russian
delegation made it sound as if it were not Russia that
invaded, occupied and annexed a part of the Ukrainian
sovereign territory of Crimea last spring. The Russian
delegation's statement today made it sound as if regular
Russian troops were not in Ukrainian sovereign
territory. At the last meeting of the Security Council
(see S/PV.7365), I demanded an explanation as to what
16 Russian battalions and a huge number of tanks and
artillery were doing in my country without an invitation.
The civilized world is waiting for an explanation from
the Russian side. On can find additional evidence on
my Mission's website, which we will try to send to
Council members as well.

If militants and Russia had complied with the
Minsk agreements, this tragedy - the most dreadful
since the beginning of the Russian aggression - would
not have happened. Radio and telephone conversations
intercepted by the Security Service of Ukraine
irrefutably indicate that the attack was organized by
terrorists supported by Russia. Further evidence of
that is Russia's blocking of a draft statement by the
Security Council condemning this horrible event, as
well as its complete silence not a single word of
reproach - about the terrorists' other barbaric acts in
the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, such as the attack
on Volnovakha, the shameful behaviour with regard
to Ukrainian hostages, the tragedy at the trolleybus
stop in Donetsk and many other cases. Therefore, the
Russian Federation, which continues to support terrorist
activities and whose troops are directly involved in
hostilities against Ukraine, is solely responsible for
the murders in recent weeks of innocent civilians in
Volnovakha, Debaltsevo, Donetsk, Mariupol and many
other towns and villages in Ukraine.

 

We seek international support so that Russia is
finally compelled to keep its promises, rein in its
proxies and stop sending troops and weaponry into
Ukraine. We demand that Russia fully implement the
Minsk agreements, which it has thus far supported in
words only, including the immediate withdrawal of
all its armed forces from the territory of Ukraine, the
stabilization of the Ukrainian-Russian border and the
establishment of international monitoring. It should
also free without any further delay Ukrainian pilot
Nadiya Savchenko - who is still on a hunger strike
that is endangering her life - as well as Oleg Sentsov,
Alexander Kolchenko and the other Ukrainian citizens
who are being held in Russia illegally.

We call on the international community to respond
resolutely to the crimes of terrorists and to increase all
forms of pressure on those who sponsor and support
them. Our position remains constant: the so-called
Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's
Republic must be recognized as terrorist organizations.

Time and again, we have called on the Security
Council to finally exercise its responsibilities under the
Charter of the United Nations so as to prevent these
terrorist groups from committing their crimes. The only
way to do that is to put an end to the Russian aggression
against Ukraine. Today, as never before, we need joint
decisive actions by the international community against
terrorist organizations and those who control them.

Let me summarize my statement with the words of
our President:

"We stand for peace, but we accept the enemy's
challenge. We will defend our homeland as true
patriots. We will do everything to stop the pain
and suffering, to return peace to each Ukrainian
family - from Lviv to Luhansk, from Chernihiv
to Kerch. Having united our efforts, we will defend
our freedom."

In this struggle for Ukraine, for Europe and,
ultimately, for the Charter of the United Nations, we
count on the Council's solidarity and actions.

