Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) (spoke in Chinese): I wish to
thank Assistant Secretary-General Fernandez-Taranco
and Assistant Secretary-General Simonovie for their
briefings.

China notes that, since the signing of the Minsk
agreements between the Ukrainian Government and
eastern militias at the beginning of September, there
have been no large-scale armed clashes in eastern
Ukraine. However, the security situation on the ground
still remains fragile with sporadic violent attacks in
violation of the ceasefire agreement, causing casualties
and damage to infrastructure.

China is deeply worried and concerned about the
situation. The top priority now is forthe parties concerned
to implement effectively and comprehensively the Minsk
agreements and to ensure the realization of a ceasefire
and cessation of violence in eastern Ukraine. That is the
fundamental way to ease the humanitarian situation of
the country, and it will create the necessary conditions
for the provision of humanitarian assistance. China
hopes that the international community will continue
to play a constructive role in the improvement of the
humanitarian situation in Ukraine. China maintains
its consistent position that the United Nations human
rights organs and international humanitarian relief
agencies should adhere to the principles of objectivity
and neutrality in carrying out their work.

The question of Ukraine involves a complex history
that has a bearing on contemporary issues. The parties
concerned should address the root of the problem and
find a fundamental solution. While the legitimate rights,
interests and claims of all regions and ethnic groups in
Ukraine should be fully accommodated, attention must
be given to addressing the legitimate concerns of the
parties and to achieving a balance of interests among
all parties. A political solution is the only proper way
to solve the question of Ukraine. China hopes that the
parties concerned will continue to implement the Minsk
agreements, to further carry out constructive efforts
and interaction and to launch as soon as possible an
inclusive dialogue that will reach a balanced, durable
and comprehensive political settlement of the question
of Ukraine.

The international community should prevail on
the parties concerned to make full use of existing
communication channels and opportunities for
dialogue, take actions conducive to the establishment
of mutual trust and avoid confrontation. China supports
any effort that will help the parties to engage in dialogue
and consultations leading to a political settlement of
the crisis, and we will continue to play an active and
constructive role in seeking a political settlement of the
question of Ukraine.

