Ms. Lucas (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): I too
would like to thank the Assistant Secretary-General ad
interim for Political Affairs, Mr. Jens Anders Toyberg-
Frandzen, for his briefing. I also thank Ambassador
Ertugrul Apakan, Chief Monitor of the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
Special Monitoring Mission, and Ambassador Heidi
Tagliavini, representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-
Office, for making themselves available to us and for
the invaluable information they have provided to the
Council on the critical situation in Ukraine.

Luxembourg fully supports the efforts of the
Swiss Chairman-in-Office of the OSCE to find a
political solution to the crisis, while fully upholding the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. We also
support the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission, which
has a key role to play to promote the de-escalation of
tensions by providing objective information on the
situation on the ground.

We are very concerned by the serious deterioration
of the situation in eastern Ukraine since 2 November,
when the separatists held illegal elections in the regions
of the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts under their control.
While the Minsk protocol and memorandum, signed on
5 and 19 September, respectively, paved the way for a
peaceful end to the conflict, non-compliance with key
provisions of the Minsk agreements has led to a new
escalation of tensions and a worsening situation in
several regions of eastern Ukraine.

The growing number of violations of the
5 September ceasefire agreement are compounded by
worrisome omens. We are concerned about the recent
build-up of Russian troops in the immediate proximity
of the Ukrainian border. We are also concerned
about the increased movements of military convoy in
separatist-controlled areas heading for Ukrainian army
positions. As has been noted, in recent days the OSCE
Special Monitoring Mission has reported sightings of
large convoys of military trucks without license plates
transporting troops and heavy weapons, including
howitzers. A convoy of nine tanks - four T-72s and
five T-64s - heading west was observed by the Mission
on Saturday, 8 November. These movements of troops
and heavy weaponry are accompanied by intensified
bombing, especially in Donetsk.

We condemn the sham elections held on 2 November
in the eastern regions of Ukraine controlled by the
separatists, with the blessing of Russia. We do not
recognize those elections. They are illegal under the
Constitution and Ukrainian law. They constitute a
flagrant violation of the commitments that Russia and
the representatives of illegal armed groups made when
signing the Minsk protocol. Those sham elections do
not legitimize the warlords at the head of the self-
proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, just as
the illegal referendum in Crimea does not and will not
legitimize the annexation of the peninsula by Russia.
Successive reports of the Special Monitoring Mission
bear witness to serious violations of human rights
committed since April in areas occupied by armed
separatist groups. These individuals cannot claim to
speak for the people of Donbas. The Secretary-General
and the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office have rightly
denounced the elections of 2 November as an obstacle
to efforts to find a political solution to the conflict.

We welcome the concrete steps taken by Ukraine to
meet its commitments under the Minsk agreements, in
particular the adoption of laws providing for amnesty
and the temporary status of local autonomy. In addition
to scrupulously observing a ceasefire, of particular
importance is the withdrawal of armed groups, military
equipment, combatants and illegal mercenaries, as well
as securing the border between Ukraine and Russia and
its permanent monitoring with OSCE verification. It is
crucial in this context that the Mission's monitoring of
the border posts at Gukovo and Donetsk be extended to
other border-crossing areas as soon as possible.

It becomes more urgent every day to end the
conflict impacting Ukraine. The conflict has already
killed more than 4,000 people since April. The victims
include numerous children, including two struck down
on 5 November by mortar shells on a school playing field
in Donetsk. The killing must stop. The solution to the
conflict has been identified; it includes the good-faith
implementation of the Minsk protocol of 5 September
and the Minsk memorandum of 19 September, signed by
all parties to the conflict, with the decisive verification
support of the OSCE.

Ukraine has demonstrated in deed its determination
to pursue the path of peace. We call on the separatists
and Russia to do the same so as to halt the spiral
of conflict. We call on the Russian Federation to
shoulder its responsibilities in the full and complete
implementation of the Minsk agreements by preventing
all military movement of weapons or combatants from
its territory into Ukraine and by exercising its influence
on the separatists to fulfil the obligations to which they
have subscribed under the Minsk agreements.

