Mr. Delattre (France) (spoke in French): I thank
Mr. Feltman for his briefing. We would have all wished
to see 2015 begin under better auspices for Ukraine and
its stability. The year has barely started, and twice in
less than a week the situation on the ground has forced
us to meet here.

The spiral of chaos, which started two weeks ago
after several months of relative calm, could not be halted
these past few days - quite the contrary. The deaths of
13 civilians in Volnovakha on 13 January, as well as
the shelling of a trolleybus in Donetsk last week, which
claimed at least eight civilian victims, were already a
source of concern, even as the previous day the Russian,
Ukrainian, French and German Foreign Ministers had
been able to reach an agreement on the withdrawal of
heavy weaponry.

On Saturday and Sunday in Mariupol, separatist
groups attacked residential neighbourhoods with
rockets, killing nearly 30 civilians and instilling terror
among the population. All reports from the ground, in
particular those of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe observers, confirm this. More
than a further violation of the ceasefire, this is also a
serious violation of the international humanitarian law
that protects civilians. These acts are unacceptable as
they indiscriminately target civilians. The offensive
against Mariupol, which was provocatively welcomed
by Alexander Zakharchenko last Saturday, violated the
commitments undertaken by the parties last September
in Minsk and is entirely unacceptable.

Let us not mince words. By supporting the Ukrainian
separatists and their actions, Russia bears a significant
share of responsibility for the violence. We must now
turn to dialogue and seriously discuss the future of
Ukraine and how to restore peace. We also call on
Russia to stop supporting the separatists, who are hell-
bent on destabilizing the situation. We call for a long-
overdue end to the transfer of weapons and manpower
across the Russian-Ukrainian border, which is fuelling
the war and violates the territorial integrity of Ukraine
and the most fundamental principles of the Charter of
the United Nations, and which undermines diplomatic
efforts seeking to settle the conflict in accordance
with international law and the fundamental rights and
freedoms of all Ukrainians, including its minorities. We
urge Russia to use all its influence on the separatists in
the east of the country so that they fully respect the
ceasefire.

The statements made by Mr. Lavrov today,
announcing the facilitation of contacts between
the warring parties, are a positive sign but they are
not enough. We also call on Ukraine to begin the
institutional reform as per its commitments. President
Poroshenko has spoken publicly of the prospects
for national dialogue and institutional reform. That
statement was a further step towards the comprehensive
implementation of the Minsk accords, which are the
only way to achieve a negotiated solution to this crisis.
The international community will judge the good faith
of the parties not on mere statements but on concrete and
verifiable actions that prove their genuine commitment
to de-escalation.

We must also call on all parties to refrain from
attacking the civilian population, to respect international
humanitarian law and to ensure humanitarian access to
the wounded and to civilians in need of assistance. We
must underscore that there can be no military solution
to this conflict. Only by all parties fully implementing
the Minsk accords and resuming serious diplomatic
discussions, in the context of the trilateral contact
group, can there be a positive outcome to this crisis.
Every efforts must be made to that end.

In this difficult context, we cannot afford to let
down our guard. France remains and will remain
fully mobilized to achieving a peaceful settlement.
Our goals are clear and consistent: respect for the
ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weaponry on each
side of the contact line, a resumption of prisoner
exchanges, the resolution of humanitarian issues and
the implementation by the parties of all measures under
the Minsk accords.

France will pursue its efforts, in close contact with
our German partners and the Russian and Ukrainian
authorities, under the so-called Normandy format.
We have no time to waste. This is not the time for
prevarication or hypocrisy. Today we must urgently
end this conflict, which has already claimed more than
5,000 lives and exacted too high a price from Ukraine,
from Russia, from the European Union and from the
international system as a whole.

