Ijoin other speakers in expressing my confidence, on behalf of the delegation of Argentina, in Korea's leadership during the month of its presidency. I also express my recognition and gratitude to the Nigerian presidency of last month.I also thank the Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs, Mr. Feltman, for his briefing on the situation in Ukraine.

We are meeting for the second time this week to discuss once again the alarming situation in Ukraine, showing that the Security Council has a responsibility to express - and for Argentina, to reiterate - its concern that wide-scale violent confrontations could result from the growing tensions. The alarming reports coming from Solviansk suggest that such confrontations have occurred and that there is a serious risk of entering into a spiral of violence with grave consequences for Ukraine, the region and the international community.

Argentina condemns the acts of violence reported in eastern Ukraine that have claimed human lives.
Unfortunately, the calls by the members of the Council, the Secretary-General and the international community on all parties to seek to calm the situation, exhibit the greatest of self-control and to contribute to constructive dialogue have not been heeded. The spirit compromise shown in Geneva has deteriorated rapidly and must be recovered in order to find a political and diplomatic solution to the crisis.

It must be made clear to all parties that a peaceful solution to the difficult situation in Ukraine cannot be achieved through unilateral acts of any sort. It is particularly crucial that all parties fully respect human rights law and international humanitarian law, respect the rights of all minorities and ensure that all actions are strictly within international law.

The only solution that Argentina, like the rest of the international community, considers desirable and necessary is that reached through an inclusive national dialogue with the participation of all of the parties involved. However, to launch such a dialogue process and move towards a solution, it is crucial to create conditions conducive to negotiation, build confidence among the various communities and provide assurances to all Ukrainians throughout Ukraine that their main concerns will be addressed, with full respect for Ukraine's right to see to its internal affairs.

We have witnessed further confrontational rhetoric once again, speeches fomenting hate, discrimination, hostility and violence, and actions that serve only to escalate the already highly volatile situation.
All of this seriously undermines any effort by the international community to encourage the parties to enter into constructive dialogue towards a peaceful politico-diplomatic solution to the crisis.

It is therefore crucial that the most influential actors engage in constructive diplomacy, refrain from confrontational rhetoric and use their influence on the parties for progress in the effective implementation of the measures agreed on 17 April in Geneva. Those measures are necessary, indeed indispensable, for de-escalating tensions and finding a way out of the cr1s1s.
Finally, human lives are at stake and regional stability is at risk. Respect for the founding principles of the Charter of the United Nations must be ensured, including the universal principles of the territorial integrity, sovereignty and political independence of Ukraine. The Security Council has met several times in a short period to address this situation, but we have not manifested the capacity to play a constructive role to find a way out of the crisis. Members' calls to de-escalate tensions, exercise restraint and pursue dialogue have no effect because they are not coherent.
We have not been able to send out a message in a single voice or to take any sort of action. But it is not too late. The worst can still be averted. Perhaps the Council will - it should - be able to send the same message today as the one the Secretary-General made today, in the same terms, in the same spirit and with the same convictions, that is, that we must assume our responsibility to maintain international peace and security.

