Mr. Pressman (United States of America): I
thank Assistant Secretaries-General Oscar Fernandez-
Taranco and Ivan Simonovic' for their briefings.

The United States has always been and remains
steadfastly committed to finding a peaceful solution to
the crisis in Ukraine. Peace requires respect - respect
for international law, respect for borders, respect for
other nations' sovereignty. It requires living up to
one's commitments and owning up to one's actions.
Yet, over the course of our 25 meetings in the Security
Council on Ukraine, that has proved an overwhelming
challenge for Russia. Russia continues to provide
separatists with resources, arms and training, all the
while continuing to deny it is doing so. Ukrainian pilot
Nadiya Savchenko was seized by separatists in Ukraine
and somehow ended up unlawfully transferred to
Russia, where she is now being forced to undergo what
is termed "psychiatric evaluation", in which her human
rights are violated through the use of a practice made
infamous in the Soviet Union. We have seen reports
of other Ukrainians similarly detained in Russia, with
similar disregard for international standards. Those
actions must stop.

There is one clear path to recovering peace in
Ukraine. All sides, including Russia and the separatists
it supports, must honour the commitments they agreed to
on 5 September in Minsk. Those commitments include
an immediate end to ceasefire violations, restoration
of Ukrainian control of its side of the international
border, monitoring of the border by the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and a
security zone on either side of the border, withdrawal
of foreign forces, mercenaries and equipment from
Ukraine, and the release of hostages and prisoners. All
sides agreed to 12 commitments on 5 September, and
the Ukrainians have taken action on all those for which
they have a responsibility.

Unfortunately, both the separatists supported by
the Russian Federation and Russia itself have failed
to implement their Minsk commitments. In response
to the Ukrainian laws on special status that provide
additional autonomy for parts of Donetsk and Luhansk,
including special elections to be held on 7 December,
the separatists have declared unilaterally that they
would hold their own local so-called elections in
November. That is unconstitutional and completely
inconsistent with the Minsk agreements. It also reveals
the separatists' true intentions, which are not to
empower people with a choice within the legal political
process of Ukraine, but rather to set up another vote
that they can once again rig.

Continued separatist assaults in locations
throughout Donetsk and Luhansk, including in and
around the airport, have resulted in the killing and
wounding of scores of Ukrainian armed forces and
civilians, and the destruction of vital infrastructure.
Those attacks have occurred since the agreement in
Minsk and after the ceasefire went into effect. The
failure to live up to the ceasefire is only imposing
greater hardship and suffering on the people of the
Donbas region. They are the ones being forced to live
with no water or electricity and no opportunity to earn
a living, and their children are the ones whose schools
are in the crossfire. That is not how anyone should live.

The people okaraine will celebrate a milestone on
Sunday as they go to the polls to elect a new parliament,
demonstrating their commitment to an enduring
democratic process, despite the political upheaval
during the past year. We hope to see wide participation
in the elections by all Ukrainians, including in Crimea,
Donetsk and Luhansk, and strongly condemn any
interference in that legitimate democratic process.

While Ukraine seeks to build a peaceful, stable
and secure future, Russia continues to occupy Ukraine.
Following its attempted annexation of Crimea, Russia's
representative pledged that the Council "has no need to
worry about the fate of the Crimean Tatars" (S/PV. 7157, p. 21). Yet we see report after report documenting
abuses, including detentions, expulsions, restrictions
of movement and the curtailment of the freedoms of
expression, peaceful assembly, association and religion
or belief. The Russian occupation of Crimea must end,
and until it does the Russian occupying authorities must
cease their harassment ofreligious and ethnic minorities
and allow international human rights monitors and
monitors from the OSCE full access to Crimea. In
Crimea, we have seen how a group of separatists who
seized power on the pretext of protecting one minority
have become the cruel oppressors of another. We should
expect nothing different from the separatists trying to
seize control in eastern Ukraine.

We welcome Ukraine's commitment to investigating
the allegations of mass graves, and we note that in July,
with the assistance of international experts, Ukraine
began an investigation into grave sites containing eight
bodies that were discovered in Sloviansk following the
town's liberation from separatist control. No one is above
the law, and the United States supports a full, thorough
and impartial investigation of all alleged grave sites.
Full implementation of the Minsk agreement would, of
course, create an environment that would enable those
investigations to move forward.

We are also aware of reporting by non-governmental
organizations on the use of cluster munitions. We take
note of the Ukrainian Government's denial of the use
of such weapons. We take very seriously all accusations
regarding harm to civilians and unequivocally condemn

any indiscriminate shelling of civilian areas. There can
be no excuse for abuses committed by anyone fighting
in eastern Ukraine, and all such accusations should be
fully investigated as soon as the security conditions
allow. That, of course, means that the separatists and
their Russian backers must cooperate.

There has been much focus in recent days on the
lines demarcating the ceasefire, but let us not forget a
more important line, the international border. Indeed,
in the Minsk agreement of 5 September, point number
4 of the 12 calls for permanent monitoring of the
Ukrainian-Russian State border and verification of it
by the OSCE. The Government of Ukraine recently
submitted a plan to provide for that monitoring, restore
Ukrainian control on its side of the border, prevent the
illegal movement of personnel and materiel across the
border and create a security zone free of weapons in the
areas adjacent to the border in Ukraine and the Russian
Federation. But Russia has not engaged on this plan,
neither have the separatists, and Russia has refused to
expand OSCE monitoring along the border.

Until a full monitoring mission is in place on the
international border, supplies and equipment will
continue to flow from Russia to the separatists, and
separatists will continue to cross back and forth at will.
President Putin said in Milan that he would not discuss
OSCE monitoring of the border until the residents of
the Donbas are secure. In fact, the reverse is true. The
residents of Donbas will not be secure until the OSCE
is monitoring the border. Ukraine's sovereignty must
be restored over the entirety of its border with Russia.

If the border can be secured and if free and fair
elections can be held - not only on 26 October across
Ukraine for the Rada, but also on 7 December in the
areas of Donetsk and Luhansk - everybody will
benefit, as will the cause ofpeace and security. Russia's
actions over the past months have challenged the most
basic principles of our international system. Borders
cannot and should not be redrawn at the barrel of a gun
or on the whim of a single leader and the circle of his
cronies around him. We have identified a path to peace.
That path has been agreed to by the parties in Minsk.
It has concrete, verifiable commitments, and all must
be implemented. Ukraine has taken real steps to fulfil
its commitments, while Russia and the separatist it
backs have not. We call on them to act immediately to
implement the obligations they undertook, and we call
on them to do so now.
