Ms. Power (United States of America): I thank
you, Mr. President, for convening today's meeting on
the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. We also thank Assistant
Secretary-General Toyberg-Frandzen for his clear and
objective briefing. We are grateful to Ambassadors
Apakan and Tagliavini for briefing us today and for the
brave and critically important role that the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is
continuing to play on the ground.

This is the Security Council's twenty-sixth meeting
on the current crisis in Ukraine. If our message and the
message of other countries today on the deteriorating
situation in eastern Ukraine sounds familiar, it is
for good reason. For while the situation has evolved,
the root of the problem remains the same: Russia's
flagrant violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and
territorial integrity. Time and again, Russia has made
commitments and then failed to live up to them, and
subsequently offered explanations to the Council that it
knows are untrue.

The most recent example involves the joint
commitments made by Russia, the separatists it
supports and Ukraine on 5 September in Minsk. They
include an immediate end to the ceasefire violations,
the restoration of Ukrainian control of its side of the
international border, OSCE monitoring of the border
and a security zone on either side of the border, as well
as the withdrawal of foreign forces, mercenaries and
equipment from Ukraine and the release of hostages
and prisoners. On none of those have Russia or the
separatists lived up to their word. At Minsk, all sides
committed to an immediate ceasefire. Yet, rather
than observe the ceasefire, the separatists have taken
advantage of the agreed-upon pause in the fighting to
try and expand their territory beyond Minsk lines.

Meanwhile, Ukraine has maintained a full
ceasefire along the agreed lines, as it defends its forces
and population from separatists' push for more. Over
the last few days separatist attacks have increased
significantly, including on positions around Donetsk
airport, the city of Debaltseve and,of course, near
Mariupol.

At Minsk, all sides committed to permitting the
OSCE to monitor and verify the ceasefire. Yet Russian-
backed separatists have fired on OSCE monitoring
drones and used jamming signals to interfere with its
team members' electronics using equipment supplied
by Moscow. At Minsk, all sides agreed to permanent
monitoring at the Ukrainian-Russian State border
and the creation of a security zone along the border.
Yet Russia has done nothing to restore Ukrainian
Government control over the international border.
Russia has refused to press separatists to allow the
OSCE access to the border, and Russia continues to
flout Ukrainian air space with its helicopters and
unmanned aerial vehicles. It also continues to send
so-called humanitarian convoys - convoys it will not
allow Ukrainian customs authorities or international
monitors to search.

At Minsk, all sides committed to immediately free
all hostages and illegally held persons. Yet Russia and
the separatists it backs continue to hold approximately
500 captives. Those captives include Ukrainian pilot
Nadia Savchenko and Ukrainian film director Oleg
Sentsov, both of whom were captured by separatists on
Ukrainian soil and illegally transported against their
will to Russia.

At Minsk, Russia committed to remove all illegal
military formations, military equipment and militants
from Ukraine. Yet, rather than withdrawing its military
forces from Ukraine and rather than cutting off its
support for separatists, Russia is instead surging more
forces and more equipment across the border. The
Russian military has maintained a forward presence
in eastern Ukraine since the ceasefire took effect. We
have information indicating that a Russian air-defence
system was operating near one of the separatist convoys
in Donetsk. Russia has not provided that type of air-
defence system to separatists to date, suggesting that
Russian forces were protecting the convoy.

On 9 November, the OSCE Special Monitoring
Mission reported two convoys of 17 unmarked
green trucks moving west through Donetsk towards
the ceasefire line. Yesterday, 11 November, OSCE
monitors observed the movement of 43 unmarked
military vehicles on the eastern outskirts of Donetsk.
Five were seen towing l20-millimetre howitzers
and five others were towing multiple-launch rocket
systems. NATO confirmed it had observed columns
of Russian equipment - primarily Russian tanks,
Russian artillery, Russian air-defence systems and
Russian combat troops - entering Ukraine over the
past 48 hours.

The list goes on, but the pattern is clear. Where
Russia has made commitments, it has failed to
meet them. Russia negotiated a peace plan, then
systematically undermined it at every step. It talks of
peace, but it keeps fuelling war. That is not all. On
2 November, Russian-backed separatists held illegal
elections in the parts of the Donetsk and Luhansk
regions that they control. The elections contravene
Ukraine's laws and its sovereignty. They defied point 9
of the Minsk protocol. But if Russia and the separatists
intended the elections to cast a veneer of legitimacy
on their actions, they failed. Instead, the world saw
the elections for what they are: a shameless attempt to
validate territory seized at the barrel of the gun - a
gun provided by Russia.

In keeping with its efforts to escalate rather than
de-escalate at every turn, rather than condemn the
separatists" sham election like most of the international
community, Russia encouraged it. Foreign Minister
Lavrov even tried to argue that the elections were part
of the Minsk agreements, which clearly stipulate that
the elections be local and conducted "in accordance
with the law of Ukraine".

Russian and separatist actions in eastern Ukraine
currently have nothing to do with improving the
humanitarian situation in Donbas, or decentralizing
power, as called for in points 3 and 8 of the Minsk
protocol. A recent Associated Press (AP) report from
the rebel-held town of Perevalsk, part of the territory
that recently declared independence from Ukraine,
revealed the town was ruled by a local warlord who goes
by the name of "batya" - or "daddy". Daddy's power
is maintained by a group of armed Cossacks, whom he
calls his Great Don Army, and four tanks outside his
office fly Russian and rebel flags. Asked where his
authority came from, Daddy told the AP reporter:

"We are an independent organization and we
don't depend on anyone. I am answerable only to
President Putin and Our Lord."

In neighbouring Alchevsk village rebel leaders
preside over the kangaroo trials of people accused of
crimes. Defendants are not given lawyers and their
judges are whatever members of the community show
up, who vote by a simple show of hands. That is what
the separatist democracy looks like. We continue to
see similar repressive tendencies in Russian-occupied
Crimea, where members of the Tatar minority have
been relentlessly persecuted and the free press muzzled.

By contrast, Ukraine has made a genuine effort
to live up to its agreements at Minsk and continues
to show considerable restraint in response to constant
provocation and attack. The Ukrainian people have
repeatedly chosen leaders who call for de-escalation
over escalation, first in the presidential election and
then in parliamentary elections.

Ukraine has also put in motion critically important
reforms to reduce corruption and grant greater
authority to its regions through constitutional reform.
It has sought to maintain the ceasefire along the lines
established at Minsk. The United States continues to
support the Minsk peace process, and we continue to
call for its full implementation. We remain prepared to
roll back sanctions if the fighting stops, the border is
closed, the foreign forces and equipment are withdrawn
and hostages are released. We have said all along that
there is no military solution to the crisis. The solution,
as has been said, by the OSCE here today and United
Nations, must be political. With Minsk we have a road
map to reach that solution. The problem is, as it has long
been throughout this crisis, you cannot reach a political
solution if only one side is committed to forging it,
and you cannot effectively implement a road map with
parties who, like the Russians and the separatists they
back, so consistently fail to keep their word.

We have seen Russia's playbook in Transnistria,
South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Crimea - so the question
is not what Russia will try to do in eastern Ukraine,
the question is what we, the international community,
will seek to do to prevent yet another frozen conflict in
Europe manufactured by Russia.

The Minsk agreement was brokered under the
auspices of the international community; as such,
there must be consequences when Russia flouts the
commitments it has made and continues to destabilize
its neighbour.

Russia has not earned the good faith we would
wish to bestow. Even when Russia claims, as Foreign
Minister Lavrov did today, "the inadmissibility of
disrupting the implementation of the Minsk ceasefire
agreements" actions are all that matter - and actions
alongside these words show intentions. The Donetsk
airport has come under attacks from artillery and arms
fire four times in the past 24 hours, and in the past day
Ukrainian positions have been shelled near Debaltseve,
Avdiyivka, Hirske and Krasnohorivka.

What we can do - what we must do - is keep
ratcheting up the pressure on Russia until it abides
by Minsk and chooses the path of de-escalation.
Russia's actions in Ukraine are a threat not only to the
countries in Russia's immediate vicinity but also to the
international order.

