Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): I thank
Assistant Secretary-General ad interim Toynberg-
Frandzen, Ambassador Apakan and Ambassador
Tagliavini for their briefings just now.

While the overall security situation in eastern
Ukraine has been stable recently, violent attacks have
continued to take place and have caused loss of life and
property. China is concerned about that. At the same
time, China welcomes the recent agreement signed
between Russia and Ukraine on natural gas and hopes
that the agreement will contribute to easing the current
tensions and enhancing a political solution to the crisis
in Ukraine. China believes that a political solution is
the only way to resolve the question of Ukraine. For
the next stage, all the parties concerned should truly
implement the Minsk agreement in a comprehensive
manner so as to ensure that a ceasefire is achieved, the
violence in eastern Ukraine is brought to an end and the
humanitarian situation in affected areas is alleviated.

The question of Ukraine involves both complex
history and current reality. A fundamental solution to
the question of Ukraine should take into full account
the legitimate rights, interests and wishes of all regions
and ethnic groups in Ukraine. It should also seek to
satisfy the reasonable concerns of all parties and
achieve a balance of interests among them. We hope
that all parties will continue to engage in constructive
dialogue with a View to agreeing on a balanced, lasting
and comprehensive political solution. All parties should
work together to achieve that goal.

China has always abided by the principle of
non-interference in the internal affairs of other
countries and respected the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of all countries, including Ukraine. China
supports all actions that will contribute to dialogue
and consultation and to finding a political solution to
the crisis. China will continue to play a positive and
constructive role in favour of a political solution to the
question of Ukraine.
