Mr. Nebenzia (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): We are grateful to Mr. Angelino Alfano,
Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Italy, for his substantive briefing on
the work of the OSCE and the issues on its agenda.

We have always proceeded from the assumption
that the work of the OSCE is particularly important to
the European continent, and we have always supported
strengthening European institutions and agreements on
treaty and legal regimes in our shared security area.
Russia is firmly committed to the Helsinki principles
for relations between States and to political obligations
undertaken in that regard. Unfortunately, our calls for
reasonable dialogue and practical implementation of
the principles of equal and indivisible security in the
West have so far gone unheeded. Some of our partners
continue to prefer to see things in terms of the Cold War,
portraying Russia as a threat to peace and security and
forming closed clubs in which some countries' security
can come only at others' expense. The result of all that
has been that today the Euro-Atlantic architecture,
of which the Charter of the United Nations and the
Helsinki Final Act remain the cornerstones, is being
severely tested.

In these complex realities, it is more important
than ever to strengthen multilateral cooperation,
including through international organizations. That
cooperation should be regular and multifaceted, and
should cover every aspect of security. It is the OSCE's
job to help to realize the purposes and principles of
the United Nations in the context of its mandate and
the area within its purview. We are ready to cooperate
constructively with the Italian chairship of the OSCE
and we share its desire to strengthen multilateralism
for peace, security, stability and cooperation among
the States of the region. We have great expectations
for the increased cooperation between the OSCE and
the United Nations, especially considering what has
already been achieved so far. We have especially
noted the intensive collaboration between the OSCE
secretariat's Transnational Threats Department and
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in
combating the illegal trade in drugs and small arms,
terrorism, organized crime, corruption and money-
laundering, as well as in countering human trafficking
and illegal migration. An important area of cooperation
between the two organizations is the implementation
of the Security Council's anti-terrorism resolutions,
as well as in fighting the ideology of terrorism, as is
provided for in resolution 2354 (2017).

In the area of international security information,
the OSCE complements the global United Nations
efforts to develop confidence-building measures
through the use of information and communications
technologies. We urge it to join efforts to develop and
implement additional concrete confidence-building
measures in the interests of providing cybersecurity.
Those platforms should not be used for unfounded
accusations in that regard.

We value cooperation between the United Nations
and the OSCE on the ground, as has occurred through its
Mission in Kosovo, as well as their collaboration in the
Geneva talks on Transcaucasia aimed at establishing a
direct dialogue between Georgia, Abkhazia and South
Ossetia. We support the Italian chairship's priority
of continuing the OSCE's efforts to assist in settling
regional conflicts, and we are willing to cooperate with
settlements for Transnistria and Nagorno Karabakh.

We did not plan to talk specifically today about the
situation in Ukraine outside the context of the OSCE's
activity. Ultimately, it is far from the only issue it is
dealing with. However, the statements by a number of
representatives have compelled us to bring it up.

In order to understand the reason for the
deteriorating situation in Ukraine, we have to go back
practically to the very beginning and recall how the
problems in Ukraine first started. Our assessments of
the origin and current situation of what I emphasize
is an internal Ukrainian crisis do not coincide, to put
it mildly. Four years ago, with the direct involvement
of the West, there was a coup d'etat in Ukraine.
Those who came to power decided to rid Ukraine of
everything Russian and the Russian language that was
native to millions of the country's citizens, and to tie
them to a paradigm of development to which they never
consented and could not accept. There was absolutely
no desire for reconciliation with the new authorities
in Crimea or eastern Ukraine. Crimeans freely chose
unification with Russia. In Donbas they were attacked
with bullets and shells.

For the whole of those four years, Kyiv has not only
been at war with its own citizens, it has persistently
cultivated hatred for Russia in society and has
permitted an orgy of nationalism and xenophobia, with
the full connivance of our Western partners. Without
Kyiv's acknowledgement of the depravity of those
policies, it is unlikely that anything will change for the
better. The key to resolving the problems in Ukraine
lies in the hands of the Ukrainians themselves, and
only the Ukrainians. But Kyiv chose a convenient
formula, dumping the blame for all of its problems and
its unwillingness to engage in a dialogue with its own
citizens on the infamous Russian aggression, which no
one has been able to present evidence of. And of course
the Western curators are hardly burning with a desire to
put Kyiv on a constructive path.

Resolution 2202 (2015) enshrined the Minsk
agreements as the basis for settling the situation in
Ukraine. However, right from the beginning, Kyiv
worked to sabotage the process and rewrite the
agreements' intentions, while the recently passed law
on the so-called reintegration of Donbas has officially
buried the Minsk package of measures. We can cite
numerous other examples of the provocative actions of
the Ukrainian authorities, such as their discriminatory
language policy, the indulging of neo-Nazist
movements, the countless violation of laws by its own
citizens and the fomenting of hatred against Russia.
They turn a blind eye to the scandalous vandalism of
Russian cultural centres; seizing Russian businesses
has virtually become official policy; and they have
created an atmosphere of totalitarian suppression of
all opposition voices. Opposition journalists are being
murdered, and I could continue this list. But the West
prefers not to notice. The Kyiv authorities have been
indulged by their sponsors and given carte blanche
to say and do whatever they feel like. As long as that
continues and Kyiv continues to undermine the Minsk
agreements, as long as it refuses to talk directly to its
own citizens while falsely presenting Russia as a party
to the conflict but not themselves - alas, we can expect
nothing good and no genuine settlement.

For our part, we are directly interested in
normalizing the situation in Ukraine as soon as possible,
and we are doing everything we can to facilitate that.
But I would like to remind everyone, including those
who spoke today, that before Ukraine can regain control
of its borders, it must first comply with the political
elements of the agreements, which are a condition for
regaining that control, and not the other way around.
That is what the Minsk agreements say. I advise those
who are so fond of referring to them to read them again.

We support the efforts of the OSCE in the Trilateral
Contact Group and the work of the Special Monitoring
Mission in Donbas, which is acting as the international
observer for the implementation by the parties - Kyiv,
Donetsk and Luhansk - of the Minsk agreements,
which are the sole basis for a settlement of the crisis
in Ukraine, as affirmed in resolution 2202 (2015). We
hope that the Italian chairship will continue to ensure
the objectivity of the work of the Special Monitoring
Mission, as well as focusing the OSCE's representatives
in the Contact Group on developing a direct dialogue
among the parties to the conflict.

In conclusion, I would like to once again emphasize
that Russia sees the OSCE as an important mechanism
for building an equal and indivisible system of pan-
European security and wants to strengthen its role and
prestige. We believe firmly that in order to increase the
OSCE's prestige, it is essential to define its priorities.
The necessity for reform is long overdue. At issue are
its adoption of a charter and rules for its executive
structures' operations, as well as introducing order
and transparency in many other areas. It is not an
exaggeration to say that strengthening the OSCE and
ensuring that it attains the current goal, as outlined
in Astana in 2010, of establishing a free, democratic
and indivisible security association from Vancouver to
Vladivostok, is in the interests of all States Members
of the United Nations. We urge it to concern itself not
with imaginary threats but with real ones. We all know
what they are. Instead, we should think together about
a renewed long-term international security system
that would be built on the principles of respect for the
interests of other countries, international law and the
key role of the United Nations.

