Mr. Ramirez Carrefio (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): The delegation of
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela thanks you,
Mr. President, for convening this Security Council
briefing on Ukraine. We also welcome Mr. Jeffrey
Feltman, Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs,
and we appreciate the information he has provided to us
on the political situation in Ukraine.

Our country expresses its grave concern about the
recent escalation of armed conflict in eastern Ukraine,
which has caused loss of civilian lives and untold
numbers of injuries. Venezuela reiterates its call on
the parties to promote a peaceful, negotiated, political
solution to the crisis. We stress that any violent incident
on the ground should be investigated independently,
and that the investigation's conclusions should be based
on irrefutable evidence. Venezuela rejects any act of
violence or terrorism, in particular attacks against
civilians, from wherever they originate.

The intensification of the armed conflict in eastern
Ukraine makes it imperative that the parties put an end
to their hostilities in the area. The ceasefire is therefore
a crucial step.

It is necessary to continue on the path of seeking a
political and diplomatic solution to the Ukrainian crisis,
in which the conflicting parties commit to working on
achieving a firm and lasting peace.

The mediation efforts by regional organizations
is, in our View, particularly important in the process of
finding a negotiated settlement to the conflict. In that
regard, we reiterate our support for the efforts of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,
Germany and France to promote dialogue among
Ukraine, Russia and the representatives of the Donbas
region.

We also welcome the joint communique issued
on 21 January in Berlin by the Ministers for Foreign
Affairs of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine,
and we encourage the parties to work together for its
implementation.

The Minsk agreements are the basis on which
lasting peace can be achieved in the region. We reiterate
that any intervention by outside elements that violate
the Minsk agreements and regional efforts to reach an
agreement between the parties should be avoided.

Venezuela stresses that the parties must act with a
sense of restraint in order to prevent the dialogue from
being undermined by unilateral actions that jeopardize
the peace process. The cycle of violence must be
broken. Building the foundation for peace involves
putting an end to hate speech, ethnic persecution and
war propaganda. The historic and root causes of the
conflict must be addressed and a political agreement
between the parties must be sought.

The escalation in hostilities requires strict
compliance by the belligerent parties with obligations
concerning the protection of civilians in the areas
affected by violence, including the need to ensure
humanitarian access to internally displaced persons,
refugees and others residents in areas affected by the
conflict.

Finally, we again call on all parties to redouble
their efforts in the search for a just and lasting political
solution, which is in their own interests and those of the
entire region.

