Mr. Pankin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian):
I do not want to engage in polemics with the Permanent
Representative of Ukraine, but all the same I wish to
call attention to a few things.

First, I have said, and I repeat, that of course the
ceasefire and the normalization of the situation are
the key tasks, but they require trust. When we heard
the statements of Ukraine's representatives in late
October, early November and more recently, we were
convinced that Kyiv was not committed to a diplomatic
solution to the conflict. From the very beginning, the
Kyiv authorities have made no secret of the fact that the
ceasefire would be used for a realignment of forces and
the pursuit of military activities.

In the framework of what I have said, there is only
one truth. I would like to cite two statements, the first
made by Yuri Lytsenko, an adviser to the President of
Ukraine, on 24 October, before the elections, on the
Ukrainian radio. He said:

"The ceasefire and the achievement of peace
are going to work in our favour. All four tank
factories are working three shifts. Several hundred
armed vehicles have been fully rebuilt and have
entered the anti-terrorist operation area. We need
the ceasefire regime to receive high-tech equipment
and military and financing assistance from the
West."

Markiyan Lubkivsky, an adviser to the head of the
Security Service of Ukraine, also said on the national
radio, on 2 November and again on 7 November:

"Sooner or later, we are going to have to engage
in very proactive activities" and that "we will need
three or four years to resolve the situation. We
think we could win this war based on the Croatian
scenario. In 1991, Croatia began the war and it
ended in 1995 as a result of successful special
operations."

As we can see, there is not a single word about the
implementation ofthe Minsk agreement here, just about
a victory on the battlefield.

Secondly, of course some activities do not help the
situation from the Ukrainian perspective. For example,
with respect to the serious matter of the delimitation
of territory, an agreement had been almost 80 per cent
concluded. Then suddenly on 28 October, the Ukrainian
representative General Dumansky, without offering
any reasons, annulled an accord in which over 80 per
cent of the lines of opposing forces had been delimited.

Lastly, as Iunderstand it, the Ukrainian representative
asked me here and now to an answer the question why
several hundred units and vast amounts of Russian
military equipment are being concentrated on the
Ukrainian border. First, I cannot answer because I do
not know if that is true or what sources of information
are being cited. Those are horrific numbers; they are
very striking, even to me. I am ready to respond to that
question in a more specific manner. It will be agreed
that the equipment and the Russian armed forces are
on the territory of my country and are not threatening
Ukraine. They are not leaving my country. Thus,
inciting such emotions in the Security Council, as if
there were going to be such huge attack on Ukraine,
does not help the constructive discussions that all here
are counselling and that we too endorse.

