Mr. Quinlan (Australia): I thank Assistant
Secretary-General Fernandez-Taranco and Assistant
Secretary-General Simonovic' for their briefings.
Australia supports the ongoing work of the Office of the
High Commissioner for Human Rights on the human
rights situation in Ukraine, which is so important
to enabling the Council to assess developments in
Ukraine, a task that is clearly needed by us. As we have
seen, the sixth report of the human rights monitoring
mission gives rise, yet again, to serious concerns.

There have been some encouraging developments
in the reporting period and since then, particularly the
ceasefire agreement and the Minsk protocol in early
September, the restoration of law and order to some
parts of eastern Ukraine, and the partial drawdown
of some Russian military personnel and equipment
from Ukrainian territory. But of grave concern are the
continuing hostilities in parts of eastern Ukraine, which
have led to well over 300 fatalities - both civilian
and combatants - since the ceasefire began. The
latest report details significant casualties, significant
numbers of displaced people, the dreadful state of
critical infrastructure and of thousands of children
who are unable to access education. Australia calls for
all parties to uphold the ceasefire and to engage in a
genuine and constructive dialogue to find a political
solution.

The report paints a very disturbing picture of life
in the eastern Ukrainian territories occupied by armed
groups. Yet again, we have another United Nations
report that documents the breakdown in law and
order in areas under separatist control. The reports of
abductions for ransom and forced labour, torture and
extrajuducial killings are all the hallmarks ofcriminality
and illegitimacy. The killing of a staff member of the
International Committee of the Red Cross by shelling
in Donetsk is deplorable and highlights once again the
need for all parties to respect international humanitarian
law. Any violations of international humanitarian law by
any party to the conflict must be properly investigated
and the perpetrators held accountable.
Upholding the ceasefire is clearly an important
enabling step towards a political solution, but so, too, is
the preservation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial
integrity. We are troubled by credible reports, including
from the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe (OSCE), of significant numbers of foreign
fighters continuing to move across the Russian
border into Ukraine and of large-scale attacks against
Ukrainian border checkpoints. That must stop. The
Ukrainian-Russian border must be secured, ideally
with permanent monitoring under expanded OSCE
verification. It is disturbing that Russia has blocked
that.

We note the reports of the possible use of banned
munitions and of indiscriminate shelling. We also note
that the Government of Ukraine has denied having had
a role in any such abuses. Clearly, the facts should be
established. Ifthere are such abuses, they should cease.
We also note that the ongoing violation of the ceasefire
prevents the resettlement of the many thousands of
internally displaced persons that the conflict has
generated. As Assistant Secretary-General Simonovie
has emphasized this morning, that is particularly
worrying given the onset of winter.

Ukraine will hold parliamentary elections in two
days' time. Ukrainians have the right for those elections
to be free, fair and transparent. Clearly, they should
be held without external interference. They must take
place in a secure environment that protects freedom
of expression and peaceful assembly and association
within Ukraine's legislative framework.

Announcements by the self-proclaimed Donetsk
and Luhansk People's Republics that they intend to hold
separate elections in November contravene both the
letter and the spirit of the Minsk protocol and undermine
efforts towards finding a sustainable political solution
within Ukraine's legislative framework. Those
purported elections can have no legitimacy. As the
report notes, the parallel governance structures being
created in Donetsk and Luhansk do not comply with
international norms and standards or, of course, with
Ukraine's Constitution.

The report again draws the Council's attention
to disturbing, multiple and ongoing human rights
violations in the illegally annexed territory of Crimea,
including the imposition ofRussian laws that restrict the
freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, association
and religion. The persecution and intimidation of
Crimea's Tatar population is unacceptable.

The international dimensions of the conflict in
Ukraine are known to us all, including the families
in Australia still grieving the loss of their loved ones
on Flight MH-17. All available information, including
the independent preliminary investigation report of the
Dutch Safety Board, is consistent with the assessment
that Flight MH-l7 was shot down by a surface-to-
air missile fired from a location under the control of
Russian-backed separatists. Australia, along with our
Dutch and Malaysian partners, remains committed to
returning to the crash site when conditions are safe to
do so and to doing all that it can to bring to justice those
responsible for the downing of Flight MH-17 and the
murder of all those on board.

To conclude, we must not overlook the root cause
of the situation in eastern Ukraine: Russia's persistent
campaign of deliberate destabilization. However,
there is a clear path towards an end to the violence in
eastern Ukraine. Russia must withdraw all its support
to separatists, remove all its military forces and assets
from Ukrainian territory, respect Ukraine's borders,
observe its obligations under the Minsk agreements
and engage in genuine dialogue with Ukraine. Russia's
continued refusal to heed the international community's
call to de-escalate this crisis can lead only to Russia's
further isolation.

