I pay tribute to the Permanent Representative of Nigeria and her team in their presidency of the Council for last month.

Here we are once again, meeting to address the crisis in Ukraine. Each time, the Council flaunts its divisions and hence its powerlessness while that unhappy country sinks into anarchy.

Let us return to the facts. In eastern Ukraine, armed groups are gradually seizing the cities. They enjoy no crowds of supporters other than a few hundred demonstrators. Their heavy weaponry disqualigies them as mere sympathetic activists. Russian officers strut on local television. Observers of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and jouralists have been taken hostage. Numerous people have been detained; more seriously, increasingly credible allegations are surfacing of enforced disappearances, killings and torture. These thugs have refused to implement the Geneva agreement that was intended to restore the Ukrainian State on its territory.

What has Ukraine done? After showing a restraint that no other State would have exhbited in the presence of these attacks on its authority - attacks that have been organized, supported and justified by a neighbour - it decided to use its army and police against the armed gangs spreading a sense of insecurity at the expense of people most of whom do not support them. These gangs have so little in common with the spontaneous coelescence of local groups that they were able to shoot down a helicopter with a surface-to-air missile - which, it must be acknowledged, is not commonly found at the Kharkiv market.

By what right would anyone meddle in the internal affairs of a State that is only seeking to restore its violated sovereignty? At the bilateral level, we can recall the need to act with restraint, but so far there is no evidence that it has not done so. Going any further would be to violate the Charter of the United Nations.
I know that reality has left that scenario far behind.
Having trampled the principle of the territorial integrity of States, the same can be done to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of States. After all, in sin, it is only the first step that bears a cost, as the moralists say.

Russia has proven that by renouncing, one after the other, the principles underlying international life.
But it still has a few regrets as it spirals downwards, so it tries, against all credibility, to blame the other. It invokes the agreement of 21 February, which it did not endorse and discovered only when it was too late. It brandishes the Geneva agreement, for the achievement of which it made no effort. Lastly, it makes accusations that would be comical under different circumstances: the Nazis are in Kyiv, English speakers have infiltrated the ranks of Ukrainians - which makes me jealous that no French speakers are included - and, finally, the European Union is responsible for the violence.

No, the facts are much more simple. In reality, Russia has opened a Pandora's box. They have let the demon of nationalism escape. They have unleashed bands of thugs on Ukraine. The only alternatives they are offering Kyiv are capitulation or partition - and they are suddenly discovering that this mixture can go completely out of control; that nationalism can oblige them to do what they do not want to do; that the thugs act like thugs and, finally, that Ukraine, faced with the impossible choice they wish to impose on it, can hit back. At that point, the fire-starting firefighters shriek loudly to try to make us forget that in fact it was them who chose this road, and that it is Russia who should retreat.

For our part, we have been saying for weeks that we are seeking a de-escalation - we want a de-escalation.
But de-escalation implies that Russia will calm the armed groups it is equipping and training; that it will see that the OSCE observers are freed - having still not publicly condemned their capture in the first place - and open negotiations with Ukraine; that free elections will be held on 25 May under international supervision in order to give the Kyiv authorities indisputable legitimacy; and that negotiations begin between Russia and Ukraine. Compromises are possible.
Ukraine is aware of the stakes and is ready, and the countries of Europe, the most closely concerned in this crisis, are too. Constitutional reform that responds to the concerns of the people of eastern Ukraine and respects Ukraine's sovereignty is quite conceivable. But for that to happen, we have to put an end to this bad spy thriller, in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is replaced by an information service when a crisis has to be resolved.
What we need today is not a vodka-loving James Bond but diplomats who can return to the principles that form the foundations of international life.

