Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): I would ask our Ukrainian colleague to reread
the text of my statement today, as well as the recent
statements issued today by President Vladimir Putin
in Sochi and by Minister for Foreign Affairs Sergei
Lavrov, which clearly outline our position with regard
to the peace settlement and the Minsk process. My
statement is in Russian. I will give the Council the text;
there is no official English translation, but I think it
will be useful.

In connection with what our Australian colleague
said, I do not think we need to have a broad discussion
on the independent investigation, but I am very happy
that he sounded so constructive about the investigation.
I was concerned about one thing, however, on which I
think we need to be very clear. The Australian Permanent
Representative stated that the version referred to today
is supposedly generally accepted or that it might be the
version resulting from such an investigation.

That simply is not the case. It was just a version
constructed by the United States, which did not provide
any justification. That version simply stated that a
missile was fired from the region that was supposedly
under the control of the separatists. We have not heard
any proof. Yet a few days after the tragedy, that same
region was visited by a journalist from the Russian
Service of the BBC, who gave a four-minute report from
there, which clearly demonstrated that no one had shot
any missiles from that location. However, that report
was posted on the BBC website for only half a day and
was then taken down. I suppose it was not considered
interesting enough to remain.

lwouldlike to reiterateamostimportant point. We The President (spake in Spanish): There are no
should not exchange views, here in the Security Council more names inscribed on the list of speakers. The
Chamber, on versions of what happened. We should Security Council has thus concluded the present stage
wait until the investigation is complete. We should ofits consideration ofthe item on its agenda.
ensure that the independent investigation is substantive
and wait to see how the investigative team continues to
work and what kind ofreport it produces.

The meeting rose ar1.05p.m.
