Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) (spoke in Chinese): I thank
Under-Secretary-General Feltman for his briefing.

In recent days, we have witnessed a drastic
deterioration in the situation in eastern Ukraine, with
frequent clashes and attacks that have caused heavy
casualties among civilians, including women and
children. China condemns all violent attacks aimed at
civilians and expresses its condolences to the victims
and its sympathy to their families.

We support the conduct of an objective investigation
of the relevant attacks to determine the truth and bring
the perpetrators to justice. Last week, the Security
Council held a public meeting on the question of
Ukraine (see S/PV.7365). The relevant Member States
called on the parties to the conflict to take effective
measures to as to avoid any escalation of the conflict
or confrontation. However, much to our distress, the
situation in eastern Ukraine has not improved but, on
the contrary, escalated, resulting in a considerable loss
of civilian life and property. China is deeply concerned
at the recent developments in the situation.

The deterioration of the situation in eastern
Ukraine is not in the interest of any party. What is most
urgent now is for all parties to be calm and exercise
restraint so as to avoid any further escalation of the
conflict or confrontation, to bring about a ceasefire and
stop the violence in eastern Ukraine and to implement
comprehensively the Minsk agreement reached in
September. All of the parties concerned must make
effective efforts to achieve the aforementioned
objectives.

Current developments in the situation clearly
demonstrate that in dealing with the situation in
Ukraine, it is necessary to abide by the overall objective
of seeking a political settlement; to fully consider
the complex historical factors and the reality of the
issue relating to Ukraine; to take into full account the
legitimate rights, interests and demands of all regions
and ethnic communities in Ukraine; and to attach great
importance to addressing the legitimate concerns of
all parties and ensure that the interests of all sides are
accommodated in a balanced manner, so as to arrive at
a fundamental and enduring solution to the question of
Ukraine.

The international community must make greater
diplomatic efforts to promote the quest for a political
settlement of the issue. Discussions held by the Security
Council must play a constructive role in helping to ease
the situation in Ukraine. China has consistently held that
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries
should be respected. Chinas has adopted an objective
and fair position concerning the question of Ukraine.
We support the relevant parties of the international
community in their efforts to seek a political settlement
of the question of Ukraine.

China calls on all parties to make greater efforts
and to bring into full play the role of the Normandy and
Minsk mediation mechanisms. We hope that through
an inclusive political dialogue, and on the basis of
accommodating the legitimate interests and concerns
of all parties, it will be possible soon to reach a
comprehensive balanced and lasting political settlement
to achieve peace, security stability and development in
Ukraine and the region as a whole. China will continue
to play an active and constructive role in the quest for a
political settlement of the question of Ukraine.

