Ms. Power (United States ofAmerica): I thank you,
Mr. President, for convening today's urgent meeting.
We are grateful for Under-Secretary-General Feltman's
thorough briefing on such short notice.

Just five days ago (see S/PV.7365), we met in the
Council and denounced the devastating consequences
of attacks by Russian-backed separatists on civilians
in eastern Ukraine, and we appealed to Russia to stop
supporting, training and fighting alongside separatist
forces. Members of the Council pressed Russia and
the separatists not only to recommit themselves to
the agreements they had made at Minsk, but actually
to honour those commitments in their actions.
Unfortunately, we are back in the Chamber today
because Russia and the separatists have once again
flouted those commitments. The targets are fresh ones,
but Russia's end goal remains the same - to seize
more territory and move the line of Russian-controlled
territory deeper and deeper into Ukraine.

This time, however, statements by the separatists are
complicating Russia's strategy. On Friday 23 January,
the de facto leader of the Russian-backed separatists
in Donetsk, Alexander Zakharchenko, said "today the
offensive on Mariupol begins". He also said "there
will be no more ceasefires". He said the separatists
would not stop their attacks until they had "reached
the borders of the former Donetsk region", bragging
that separatist forces were now "able to attack in three
directions simultaneously".

The representative of the Russian Federation
today said that these are statements we have taken out
of context. What context possibly justifies a massive
offensive against a civilian-populated town? I would
note also that attacking in three directions, as the
separatist leader said his forces had the capability to
do, takes a lot of weapons and forces. This capability
reflects the difference made by the substantial months-
long influx of Russian personnel and heavy weapons.
We know that Zakharchenko said these things because
he was filmed when he said them and quoted by the
official Russian news agency, Tass. On Saturday,
Zakharchenko told people at a rally in Donetsk "today
the attack on Mariupol began". He added that "in a
few days we will encircle Debaltsevo", a city that is
12 kilometres outside the ceasefire line established at
Minsk.

If only the separatists' words had been empty

bravado. Unfortunately, on Saturday the world witnessed
the horrors that resulted from the separatist attack on
Mariupol, a city 25 kilometres outside ofthe Minsk line.
On Saturday alone, more than 100 people were injured
in rocket attacks on the city. Approximately 30 people
were killed, including women, elderly and children, one
of whom was a four-year old boy. Some 40 rounds of
rockets struck the city, hitting a market, homes and a
school, among other civilian structures. The impartial
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe
Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine examined blast
craters and concluded that they had been caused by
Grad rockets fired from multi-rocket launcher systems
in separatist-controlled areas.

Why do these locations matter to the Russians
and the separatists? Mariupol is a port city that would
provide Russia with another means of supplying
separatists. And controlling the city would be another
step toward creating a land-bridge to illegally occupied
Crimea. Debaltsevo is a strategic rail and road hub and
serves as a key link between the Donetsk and Luhansk
regions. It is no accident that these strategic cities are
in Russia's sights. When on Saturday members of the
Council tried to issue a joint statement denouncing the
civilian casualties and expressing concern about the
separatist statements, Russia blocked it, as we have
heard - no wonder, given that less than a day earlier
Russia had been perfectly content to disseminate
Zakharchenko's statements in its State-run media. It
would be strange to be concerned about statements one
had encouraged and publicized, but when your State
news agency circulates announcements relishing a new
offensive and your diplomats refuse to express concern
about them, you own not only the statements but also
the offensives.

Now sometimes, perhaps given the fog of this
bloody war, the separatists are too explicit about their
objectives. Indeed, after initially blasting around the
separatists' Mariupol ambitions in the news service,
Russia began to see the same ghastly images and reports
of the carnage that the rest of us saw. At that point,
perhaps knowing the source of the weaponry used,
Russia tried to deny any tie between the separatists
and the attacks. The Russian news service Tass even
tried to erase from official news stories all quotes from
Zakharchenko speaking about the separatists' attacks.

It is not hard to understand why Russia does not want
the world to hear separatist statements. Last Wednesday,
the representative of the Russian Federation told the
Council that "the Russian Federation is ensuring full
compliance with the Minsk accords" (S/PV7365, p. 7).
On Saturday, however, Zakharchenko openly admitted
that his forces were violating those same accords. He
appeared not to have gotten the Russian memo, which
clearly calls for violating the accords while pretending
you are not. Despite Zakharchenko's statements, Russia
continues to try to play the international community
for the fool and blame the violence on the Ukrainians.
As recently as yesterday, Foreign Minister Lavrov
said "the worsening situation in Ukraine was the
result of constant attacks conducted by the Ukrainian
Government troops, which breached the Minsk
agreements". We heard the same here today from the
representative of the Russian Federation.

Zakharchenko's statements are a problem for Russia
because they are too straightforward. As members
of the Council know - and as, increasingly, all the
world can see - the separatists he claims to lead are
trained and equipped by Russia and fight with Russian
forces by their side. So when Zakharchenko brags
about seizing territory beyond the Minsk ceasefire
line; when he announces at rallies that separatists will
strike Ukrainian forces without provocation; and when
he says that he is not interested in negotiating, he is
not only speaking about the separatists' intentions but
also about Russia's intentions. This offensive is made in
Moscow. It is waged by Russian-trained and Russian-
funded separatists who use Russian missiles and
Russian tanks, who are backed up by Russian troops,
and whose operations receive direct Russian assistance.

Since December, Russia has transferred hundreds
of pieces of military equipment to pro-Russian
separatists in eastern Ukraine, including tanks,
armored vehicles, rocket systems, heavy artillery
and other military equipment. And in recent weeks,
Russia has resupplied the separatists with hundreds
of pieces of advanced weaponry, including additional
rocket systems, heavy artillery, tanks and armoured
vehicles. In mid to late January, notwithstanding the
shootdown of flight MH-17, Russia even deployed
into eastern Ukraine advanced surface-to-air missile
and anti-aircraft systems, marking the highest level of
Russian air-defence presence in Eastern Ukraine since
September 2014. There is a direct correlation between
the movement of heavy weapons and the surge in that
movement across the border, and attempts by separatists
to take more ground.

The horror wrought by this arsenal has been deadly.
According to the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights, the period from 13 to 21 January was
the deadliest on record since the 5 September agreement
was signed in Minsk. During this time, an average of
29 people were killed each day. More than 5,000 people
have been killed and almost 11,000 maimed since the
conflict began in April 2014. And today, this very day,
the attacks continue on the civilian-populated areas
over the Minsk ceasefire lines, not only in Mariupol and
Debaltsevo, but also in Pisky and Stanichno-Luhansk.
To the Russians, Mariupol and Debaltsevo may just be
strategic chess pieces in their effort to move the line of
territory that they control, but these cities are also home
to hundreds ofthousands okarainian civilians. Nearly
500,000 people live in Mariupol, the second biggest
city in the Donetsk region, and more than 25,000 live in
Debaltsevo. Mariupol is home to 92 preschools attended
by 13,000 children.

We continue to believe that the only solution to this
situation is a political solution, not a military solution.
To that end, we continue to support the efforts of the
trilateral contact group, as well as the Normandy
group of foreign ministers. We welcome the Normandy
group's agreement in Berlin, which recognizes the need
for the full, immediate implementation of the Minsk
agreement.

If Russia is serious about peace, why does it not
condemn the statements by separatists that they will
attack Ukrainians first and accept no more ceasefires,
instead of trying to erase those statements from its
State-run news services? If Russia is serious about
peace, why does it not pull its tanks and Grad missiles
out of eastern Ukraine instead of sending in more? If
Russia is serious about peace, why does it not withdraw
its forces at least to the lines agreed upon at Minsk,
rather than send in a huge infusion of Russian heavy
weapons so as to carve out new lines? Only if Russia
takes these steps will there be a chance for the political
solution that is so desperately needed.

