Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): This is about the twenty-fifth meeting to date
in which we have discussed the internal Ukrainian
crisis, which has basically been transformed into a
civil war. Yet despite dense planning and significant
international efforts carried out under various formats,
over a period of months Ukraine's slide towards the
abyss has only accelerated. What is the reason for that?

The answer is staring us in the face. From the
very beginning of the crisis, we have warned that last
winter's events in Ukraine - which were encouraged
by crude external interference that led to a coup
d'etat - could open a deep division of the country that
could be overcome only through national dialogue with
the participation of all regions, political powers and
ethnic groups and respect for their interests and rights.
Those principles, which opened a genuine path towards
a peaceful resolution of the conflict, were agreed by
Russia, the United States, Ukraine and the European
Union on 17 April, in Geneva, but they have not
been implemented. Not everyone among the new-old
Ukrainian elite or among its foreign sponsors agreed
with them. There has been no dialogue or promised
constitutional reform.

Instead of moving towards a balanced solution
that would have helped to stabilize the situation and
strengthen Ukrainian unity, the war party in Kyiv
continually received prompting from Western capitals
to conduct a punitive operation, to fight dissent, thus
undermining economic, cultural and humanitarian
links with Russia. In trying to prevent an escalation of
the crisis, we urged the parties involved to stop tearing
Ukraine apart and setting before it the false choice of
being either with the European Union (EU) and the
West, or with Russia.

What are we seeing today? Today in Kyiv and in
Brussels, as a matter of fact, everyone has returned to
the issue we should have started with - delaying the
association agreement with the EU, which the ousted
President Yanukovych had sought to postpone. The cost
of delaying that decision for almost a year is thousands
of lives, almost a million refugees and internally
displaced persons, a destroyed economy and a civil war,
and the very severe situation being endured by civilians
in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, to whom we will
continue to provide urgent humanitarian assistance. We
are ready to cooperate with the Ukrainian authorities
and with the International Committee of the Red Cross
to that end, but we will accept no obstruction, whatever
the hypocrites may say.

Some colleagues on the Council and other lofty
bodies have stated more than once that the Maidan
uprising and the following internal political processes
resulted from the democratic aspirations of the
Ukrainian people and their expectations with regard to
European values and rule of law. That is commendable.
However, what are we really seeing? There are those
in Ukraine who truly desire the civilized development
of their country; there are many such people, and we
can only commiserate with them. The current election
campaign is especially characterized by bad faith and
cynicism. The political field has been cleansed of
competitors, both figuratively and literally. A law on
lustration has been adopted, which is the precursor of
a major witch hunt. Dissent is subject to intimidation
and violence. Lynch mobs are modelled on foreign
exemplars. Media outlets that stray from the general
line are being closed. If a television channel broadcasts
in Russian or if a newspaper even contains the word
"Russian" in its name, it is immediately considered to
be separatist.

Against that background, our concern about
Ukraine arises from the growth of neo-Nazi sentiment
there, encouraged by authorities in Kyiv. On 14 and
15 October in Kyiv, Kharkiv, Odessa and a number
of other cities in Ukraine, parades of torch-carrying
neo-Nazis with fascist insignia were held. At meetings
people quote Hitler. There are calls for violent actions
against representatives of different ethnic groups.
Following precedents that are unfortunately known in
history, there have been public burnings ofundesirable
publications in Kyiv. In another act that can only be
considered blasphemous the authorities in Kyiv have
designated the date of 14 October - the date on
whichthe so-called Ukrainian Insurgent Army was
formed - as the Day of the defence of the Fatherland.
That group was guilty of criminal collaboration with
the Nazis during the Second World War, having
been involved in the murder of tens and hundreds
of thousands of innocent people - Jews, Poles,
Russians, even Ukrainians who refused to collaborate
with them. It is particularly unacceptable to see such
actions on the eve of the seventieth anniversary of the
victory in the Second World War. That proclamation
grossly violates the General Assembly resolution
67/154 - adopted seven times at the initiative of the
Russian Federation - which condemns the celebration
of Nazis as heroes. Furthermore, that proclamation
poses a serious threat to the post-war world order and
to international peace and security.

With that kind of ideological baggage, can Ukraine
really intend to move towards Europe? Our eloquent
Western colleagues have said nothing about that - as if
they had lost their sense of smell. We think it strange
and unacceptable that the topic was completely left out
of today's briefings by the United Nations officials,
Mr. Fernandez-Taranco and Mr. Simonovie. We call
on them to focus, as a priority, on combating the
glorification of Nazism and countering attempts to
rewrite history. Resolution 67/ 154 calls on everyone to
do just that.

Prospects for a political resolution in Ukraine
have taken on a realistic character since the signature
in September of the Minsk protocol and the Minsk
memorandum. Our hope for those agreements'
viability stems from the fact that they are based
on direct agreement between Kyiv and the south-
eastern part of the country, which was achieved with
the contribution of Russia and the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe. Such was not the
case in the past. Also important is the fact that, thanks
to the Minsk process, major military clashes have been
brought to an end and major principles of peacekeeping
observed. It is true that there have been violations. But
that only points to the need for painstaking work and
good-faith international support for the negotiations
with a view to ensuring the full implementation of what
the representatives of Ukraine and the armed groups
agreed to in Minsk.

At the recent Asia-Europe Meeting, President
Vladimir Putin ofRussia once again clearly underscored
our support for efforts to ensure full implementation
of the Minsk agreements. At the same time, the Milan
negotiations have shown that it is vital for the essence of
the agreements to be upheld and for its implementation
to occur in a certain sequence.

A report of the United Nations human rights
monitoring mission in Ukraine was mentioned today.
Unfortunately, once again, the report is very far from
being objective. In fact, it was the Kyiv authorities that
invited the mission in, and they have been guiding its
activities. Nevertheless, certain facts that do not favour
the Kyiv authorities cannot be ignored.

One can't ignore the violations of the norms of
international humanitarian law committed by the
Kyiv security forces, blatant facts that include the
disappearance of people, killings, looting, extortion
and arbitrary detentions, all of which have been carried
out by the Ukrainian military and other battalions
under the control of the Kyiv authorities, specifically,
the Aidar, Azov, Dnepr, Kyiv-l and Kyiv-2 battalions.

At the same time, ordinary Ukrainians are being
harshly detained under the pretext that they have
been involved in terrorism. There is an alarming and
growing number of civilian victims, including children,
as the result of indiscriminate artillery fire in densely
populated areas, as well as the use of heavy weapons,
prohibited munitions, including cluster bombs and
phosphorus munitions, and tactical rockets. There has
been a lack of progress in the investigation into the
deaths of people on the "Maidan" and the tragedies in
Odessa and Mariupol, as well as attempts to meddle
with or conceal evidence.

It is essential to investigate objectively and
thoroughly the graves of peaceable citizens found in
Nyzhnia Krynka. We also continue to be concerned
about the investigation of the Malaysian Airline Boeing
disaster: it is clearly not a coincidence that the crash site
came under fire from Ukrainian positions on 13 October
when the Dutch expert group and the observers of
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) were there. The reporting in one of the
statements we heard today of an unconfirmed version
of what happened there is irresponsible. We still do not
understand the nervous reaction of certain members of
the Security Council to our proposal of 19 September
calling for the investigation to be expanded and
deepened.

Crimea was mentioned again today. During
the years that the peninsula was forced to be part of
Ukraine, many socioeconomic problems accumulated.
Russia will try to solve them in a systematic way. That
will not be affected by efforts on the part of the Kyiv
authorities to take revenge on the population of Crimea
for their decision to join Russia. The Kyiv authorities
have erected all kinds of obstacles and have been

broadcasting anti-Crimean propaganda in an unbridled
manner.

Unfortunately, instead of working collectively
to analyse the very severe problems in Ukraine and
attempting to resolve the situation, some members of
the Security Council have, as is their custom, expressed
unqualified support for all of the actions of the Kyiv
authorities, even though the latter represent the party of
war. That support is based on their cynical geopolitical
calculations that have nothing to do with the interests
of the Ukrainian people. What everyone, including the
Security Council, should in fact be doing is to help the
parties to the conflict to maintain complete observance
of the ceasefire, prevent bloodshed, and engage in an
honest and fundamental national dialogue on issues of
constitutional reform and rebuilding a Ukrainian State
on a just and inclusive basis. It is essential that a clear
signal be sent in support of those who are in favour of
the peaceful resolution of the situation in Ukraine based
on the Geneva document and the Minsk agreements.

