Mr. Olgul'n Cigarroa (Chile) (spoke in Spanish):
We thank the Assistant Secretary-General ad interim
for Political Affairs, Mr. Toyberg-Frandzen, and we
appreciate the presence of Ambassadors Apakan
and Tagliavini at this meeting. We also welcome
Ambassador Sergeyev, Permanent Representative of
Ukraine, to the Security Council today.
We regret that the Council has had to be convened
today and express our deep concern at the further
escalation of the crisis in the east and south of Ukraine.
We are concerned about information with respect to a
possible foreign military support in eastern Ukraine
and what the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe (OSCE) has told us. It is urgent that the
ceasefire be fully respected, monitored and verified by
the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission, in accordance
with the provisions of the Minsk agreements. We trust
that all the parties will be able to implement the Minsk
agreement, which is an inclusive political instrument
aimed at achieving peace and calm for the entire
population of eastern Ukraine.

We regret the worsening security situation in the
east of the country which has had serious consequences
for the civilian population, which continues to suffer
violations and human rights abuses from all actors.
It is urgent that the increasing humanitarian needs
in south-eastern Ukraine be addressed, as the Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and
other United Nations agencies have pointed out. The
dramatic increase in the number of internally displaced
persons is one of the most disturbing elements. The
delivery of humanitarian assistance must go forward
without delay and in accordance with humanitarian
principles. The efforts of the international community
must be harnessed in support of the host Government,
which bears the primary responsibility for assistance
and protection.

We stress the importance of strengthening the rule
of law and the obligation to respect the sovereignty,
independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,
General Assembly resolution 68/262 and international
law. It is also necessary to observe the principle of
non-intervention and non-interference in the internal
affairs of another State. Finally, we urge the parties to
seek a peaceful solution to this crisis through direct
political dialogue, exercise restraint and refrain from
unilateral actions that could increase tensions.

We reiterate our support for the efforts that the
Secretary-General and the United Nations continue
to undertake to resolve the situation in Ukraine. We
also hope that the various independent international
mechanisms will continue to contribute to finding a
solution to the crisis.

