Our encyclopedically educated and eloquent French colleague inserted an interesting quotation in his statement, to the effect that when we sin, it is only the first step that carries a cost, and the subsequent ones are easier. Indeed, we can find affirmations of his words of wisdom in the history of the still young twenty-first century. Among other things, the twenty-first century has presented humankind and international relations with the gift of practices such as enforced regime change, done in an attempt to impose someone's geopolitical vision on other countries of the world. It is very clear that every such attempt launched early in the twenty-first century has resulted in terrible destabilization. But, having taken that first step, the people who made those attempts have nonetheless been unable to stop and have gone on with them. This time that has led to serious destabilization in Ukraine.

I would like to remind the Council that, during the several months of crises preceding the overthrow of the lawful administration between 21 and 25 February, our Western colleagues never once called for a halt to the violence perpetrated in Kyiv and other regions of Ukraine against the lawful authorities. There were no calls to President Yanukovych to use every possible means at his disposal as lawful President, including that of force, in order to impose order in the country.
But now, for some reason, those calls are coming loud and clear.

During this entire crisis, Russia has wanted only one thing, which is to avoid destabilization in Ukraine and settle everything through negotiations. We proposed tripartite talks among Ukraine, the European Union and Russia at the start ofthe crisis on the political confrontation that focused on whether Ukraine should sign an association agreement with the European Union.
For some reason, the European Union, with the support of the United States, rejected our proposal. When the 25 February agreement was reached, we supported it.
We still believe that many of the 25 February positions are right, and that they must be kept to if we hope to bring Ukraine out of political crisis. We helped to conclude the 17 April Geneva agreement. It is a simple agreement, but it points to a way out of the crisis in the country. The one thing that is essential is that the agreement be fulfilled.

But the most striking and infuriating thing is that the demands of the people of eastern Ukraine are basically fairly simple. Finding themselves in a situation in which the nation's capital was occupied by an illegitimate authority, to a large degree consisting of hostile nationalist radical elements, the people asked that their rights be guaranteed. They demanded federalization. It was noticeable that for a long period - almost two months after the overthrow of the lawful Government - no one there took up arms for at least a couple of months. They were all waiting for some constructive reaction from Kyiv to their demands for protecting their own interests. Not once did any kind of reasonable reaction or serious initiative emanate from Kyiv. Today some of our colleagues spoke approvingly of the most recent - today or yesterday - pronouncement of Mr. Yatsenyuk, in which he talked about 25 May, for which presidential elections are scheduled, and that there will be some kind of poll on decentralization of the country. A poll. The people have been fighting on the barricades for weeks, and they think they have to conduct a poll in order to figure out people's opinion about what they want.

What bothered me more than anything today was how calmly and approvingly our Western colleagues spoke about the search operations that the Kyiv authorities are now carrying out in eastern Ukraine.
They gave the impression that they know what the Kyiv authorities are thinking, what their plans are.
Maybe they had a part in drawing up those plans, and that was why they talked about what was going on so calmly. Perhaps that should not be so surprising after all, because, as we know, every visit to Kyiv by senior American officials has resulted in events reaching new levels of confrontation, and a more violent turn of events. In that regard, it is not surprising that the United States, as I said in my statement, did not want the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to do as it was supposed to under the Vienna Document, that is, to bring about dialogue and organize a round table with representative of different regions and the Kyiv Government. Why did the United States not want the OSCE to do that? Throughout the crisis, Russia several times has suggested different formats for the organization of such dialogue between the Government and opposition forces and regions. The Government did not want to or could not do it themselves. We suggested a constitutional assembly be convened. They said they were not ready to do so.

When the meeting of 17 April was organized, we suggested that representatives of the regions should be included, and that the four parties - the European Union, the United States and Russia and the acting Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine - could start those talks. But that proposal was rejected. The OSCE was then given the mandate, which it tried to carry out only then to be told it should not. Instead, tanks were brought out to Sloviansk and other cities in the east of the country.

Regarding what one colleague said, that Russia is refusing to implement the 17 April Geneva statement, I would repeat that Russia would never refuse to implement any useful document agreed upon during the crisis, including the 21 February agreement.
Actually listening to my statement today, one would notice that the political components were quotations from the 17 April document. If we are truly intent on finding a political solution to the crisis in spite of the dramatic events of recent days, then perhaps we might ask the President, the Permanent Representative of Korea, to make a statement following this meeting, stating that the Security Council, in keeping with the 17 April Geneva statement, calls for a swift halt to the violence, including, of course, the use of force in eastern Ukraine, and appeals for the swift and comprehensive implementation of the Geneva statement. If other members would be ready to support such action, then we would too.

