Mr. Iliichev (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): We thank the Chairperson-in-Office of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE), the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration
and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria,
Mr. Kurz, for his comprehensive briefing.

We should like to see growing cooperation between
the United Nations and regional and subregional
organizations on the basis of the Charter of the United
Nations, especially its Chapter VIII. Such cooperation
must be regular and multifaceted, encompassing all
dimensions of security. The OSCE is designed to assist
United Nations mechanisms in the area of their purview
within the framework of its mandate. It is important
to take into account the comparative advantages of
the two organizations and to avoid duplication and the
waste of resources. We should like to see constructive
cooperation with the Austrian chairmanship of
the OSCE and we share its key priorities, aimed at
conflict resolution, combatting radicalization and
extremism, the restoration of trust among States, and
the strengthening of the institutional foundation of the
Organization.

The OSCE must strive to carry out those functions
for which it was created, serving as a platform for
equitable dialogue and collective decision-making
on security issues. Its focus should be on the fight
against terrorism, drug trafficking and cyberthreats;
the harmonization of integration processes; support
for traditional values and the protection of the rights of
national minorities; combatting neo-Nazism; reform of
the OSCE, including the development of its charter; and
the organization of the electoral monitoring work of the
Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights.
We are ready to contribute to that.

We see the greatest potential in combating
transnational threats, particularly in the context of the
immigration crisis, the fight against human trafficking,
xenophobia and discrimination, and especially in
the protection of the rights of national, religious and
linguistic minorities.

We have noted the evolution of the cooperation
between the United Nations and the OSCE, with
major collaboration between the OSCE secretariat's
Transnational Threats Department and the United
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in combating
trafficking in drugs and small arms, terrorism,
organized crime, corruption and money-laundering,
as well as in the areas of combating human trafficking
and illegal migration. The OSCE's Ministerial Council
meetings in Basel in 2014 and Belgrade in 2015 adopted
declarations on the issue of cooperation between the
two organizations, strengthening the OSCE's role in
implementing important United Nations decisions,
in particular the Security Council's anti-terrorism
resolutions 2170 (2014), 2178 (2014), 2199 (2015) and
2249 (2015). Last summer in Kaliningrad, Russia's
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the
OSCE's Conflict Prevention Centre and the United
Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs, organized a
seminar for OSCE participating States' focal points on
implementing resolution 1540 (2004).

In the area of international security information, the
OSCE complements the global United Nations efforts
to develop confidence-building measures through the
use of information and communications technologies.
However, there have also been alarming attempts to
introduce monitoring mechanisms similar to those of
the United Nations into OSCE practices, as well as
non-consensus documents of the General Assembly and
Human Rights Council. We take a generally positive
view of cooperation between the United Nations and
the OSCE in the field, for example, through the OSCE
Mission in Kosovo. We appreciate their collaboration in
the Geneva talks on Transcaucasia, which have been an
important factor in establishing direct dialogue between
Georgia, Abkhazia and South Ossetia. We support
the Austrian chairship for its backing of the OSCE's
continuing efforts to help settle regional conflicts, and
we are willing to cooperate in reaching settlements in
Transnistria and Nagorno Karabakh.

It is to be hoped that 2017 can bring peace and a
political solution in eastern Ukraine, where the armed
conflict, which has now lasted more than three years,
continues to take new civilian lives. The residents of
Donetsk and Luhansk have suffered for their right to
freedom and special status Within the Ukrainian State.
It is vital that full compliance with the Minsk package
of measures be finally achieved if we are to grant the
region and its inhabitants the possibility of a peaceful
life and democratic self-government and to restore their
broken economic ties to the rest of Ukraine. All of that
is provided for in the Minsk agreement, as adopted in
resolution 2202 (2015).
In that regard, we believe that we have a proven and
well-established model for settling the conflict in south-
eastern Ukraine, one element of which is the OSCE's
Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine. We do not see
any practical benefits of duplicating the functions of
the Special Monitoring Mission through any new types
of international structure. We hope that the Austrian
chairmanship will continue to keep the Mission's
objectivity under control, while giving direction to its
representatives in the Trilateral Contact Group and its
subgroups on developing a direct dialogue between the
parties to the conflict.

While the OSCE has sufficient resources in the area
of conflict resolution, it is important to act extremely
cautiously in this sensitive and delicate process and to
bear in mind three key principles - that conflicts must
be resolved peacefully, with the direct participation of
the parties and respect for their interests, and within
existing formats.

In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that Russia
considers the OSCE to be an important mechanism
for building a fair and indivisible security system for
Europe as a whole, and is involved in strengthening its
role and authority. We believe firmly that in order to
improve the OSCE's relevance it is essential to clearly
define the priorities for its activities and to create a
charter for the organization.

