Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): The Security Council holds a large number
of meetings on a number of worthwhile topics in this
Chamber. We use many beautiful words about the
need to peacefully settle political crises, about the
impossibility of a military solution, about the rule
of law, democracy and the inclusiveness of political
processes and about human rights and the primacy of
the protection of civilians in conflict. However, after
discussing Ukraine here about 30 times, the question
arises as to how well-aligned the declarations are with
the situation in the country. Are they directly applicable,
or are they provided just for the sake of eloquence, to be
discarded when political suitability takes precedence?
Are all of the resolutions and presidential statements
adopted here relevant for such a country as Ukraine?

The Russian Federation is ensuring full compliance
with the Minsk accords to settle the Ukrainian crisis.
We take that into account during contacts with the
sides, including the leadership of Ukraine and the rebels
and representatives of interested foreign countries,
including under the Normandy format. Unfortunately,
Kyiv botched the 16 January meeting of the Minsk
contact group: the Ukrainian representatives did not
show up at the Belarusian capital.

The situation on the ground has recently worsened
significantly, with the Donetsk airport becoming
the epicentre of clashes. Despite the fact that, in line
with the Minsk agreements, the airport was to have
been given to the militias, the matter has not been
resolved peacefully because of disputes in other areas
of the engagement line. Ukrainian armed forces have
continued to shell Donetsk and other populated areas,
leading to a large number of civilian casualties.

On 15 January, the President of Russia sent a
letter to the President of Ukraine regarding the need
to rigorously implement the silence regime, as well as
about the need for a swift withdrawal of weaponry from
the engagement line, in accordance with the Minsk
agreements, based on coordinates that were insisted
upon by the Ukrainian side - I stress that - as well as
a timetable with a list of actions for the sides regarding
the the withdrawal of each type of conventional and
reactive artillery, also in line with time frames put forth
by Ukraine.

The Russian side expressed its readiness to bring
its influence to bear on the militias to ensure that the
option was adopted in good faith and to avoid civilian
casualties, and suggested providing assistance to the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) regarding monitoring of the implementation
of those steps. I underscore that the letter was sent in
accordance with a request discussed during telephone
contacts between Russian and Ukrainian leaders.
However, instead of appropriately responding to the
proposal, the Ukrainian side resumed artillery shelling
of Donetsk.

The current escalation of the situation in Donbas is
hardly fortuitous. Over the entire time of the ceasefire,
the Ukrainian side violated the Minsk agreements by
stepping up its military presence in the south-east of
the country, there was a strengthening of militarization
and regrouping, as well as new waves of mobilization
appeals from Kyiv to avenge the defeats of 2014.

At the same time, a number of countries actively
supporting the "war party" in Kyiv irresponsibly
provided Ukraine with military-purpose items. It is
clear that the events of recent days are yet another
attempt by Kyiv to resolve the internal political conflict
militarily, which will definitely lead to exacerbating
the crisis of the State of Ukraine and numerous civilian
casualties. Ultimately, it is fraught with catastrophe.

Many times here in the Chamber, we have pointed
to the fact that those who come to power as a result
of a coup d'etat i the so-called Government of the
victors - and while enjoying support from armed
radicals are conducting a policy that has nothing
in common with establishing a country of national
unity. Kyiv has cast aside all instruments concerning
a political settlement of the internal crisis. The
21 February agreement signed by Yanukovych and the
opposition on the establishment of a Government of
national unity had become a dead letter by the next day.
The Geneva statement of 17 April, providing for swift
and comprehensive constitutional reform involving
all regions and political forces, was ignored. The road
map of the Chairman of the OSCE was rejected. Has
anyone here heard anything about the inclusive national
dialogue referred to in the Minsk protocol?

The first thing that the forces that came to power
after the coup in Kyiv did was to forge ahead with
decisions aimed at restricting the rights of linguistic
minorities and suffocating dissidents. Despite the fact
that half of the country speaks in Russian, almost all
Russian-language media were closed down, Russian
television broadcasts were forbidden and the political
forces representing the Russian citizens in south-
east Ukraine were intimidated or simply banned. The
south-east and south saw horrific crimes be committed,
which have not yet been brought to light or seriously
investigated. On 2 May in Odessa, dozens ofpeople were
burned alive in the House of Trade Unions building.
On 9 May, Victory Day in the Great Patriotic War, in
Mariupol, civilians were shot. And at the beginning of
in July there were again airstrikes in Luhansk.

The nature and dynamics of the crisis in Ukraine
are difficult to understand without an understanding
of the ideological undercurrents. Last year, 14 October
was declared a public holiday in Ukraine - the day
of the establishment of the Ukrainian Insurgent
Army - which fought on the side of the Nazis. That is
an all-out glorification of Ukrainian Nazi collaborators
and misanthropes Bandera and Shukhevych, who have
the blood of tens of thousands of Soviet and Polish
citizens on their hands. Bandera gave indiscriminate
orders to execute his opponents on a massive scale,
in particular on grounds of nationality. Let me recall
Bandera's words: "I will kill every Pole from 16 to 60
years of age". Shukhevych so instructed his followers:

"Do not bully; destroy! Fear not that people will
curse us for cruelty. If only half of the Ukrainian
population of 40 million remains, there is nothing
wrong with that!"

Now incendiary marches, in the style of the Waffen-SS,
with portraits of the so-called "heroes of Ukraine" are
held completely openly, with the approval of the Kyiv
authorities.

Honestly, the Ukrainian people deserve better
heroes. The people of eastern Ukraine View this as
Americans would feel if in the United States the founding
day of the Ku Klux Klan were proclaimed a national
holiday and its members marched in Washington, DC,
with burning crosses and formed detachments to be
sent to other areas of the country to put things in order.

However, speaking on German television, Prime
Minister Yatsenyuk lamented the fact that during the
Second World War "the Soviet Union invaded Ukraine
and Germany". Apparently, he would like Ukraine
to remain under Nazi occupation even today. Still,
enlightened Europe kept silent on the matter. Indeed, it
is very strange that those who claim to be civilized can
tolerate such a subversive ideology. This is the ideology
guiding Kyiv's so-called "anti-terrorist" operations,
which are, in reality, punitive operations. Aircraft, heavy
weaponry, artillery, banned cluster and phosphorus
munitions, tactical missiles and multiple rocket
launchers are being used against cities in the south-
east. The confirmed death toll is approaching 5,000.
Refugees and internally displaced persons number in
the millions. In the city of Donetsk alone, more than

1,000 houses have been destroyed. Many small towns
and other inhabited areas have been totally destroyed.
There have been strikes against residential areas and
infrastructure, with total disregard for international
humanitarian law and basic moral decency. Even major
western non-governmental organizations, which hardly
sympathize with the militia, say that the Ukrainian
security forces do not distinguish between military and
civilian targets.

Kyiv reacted immediately to a terrible incident that
occurred on 13 January involving a passenger bus in
Volnovakha, leveling charges at the militias without
any investigation or trial. However, according to the
conclusion of the OSCE Mission, the firing came from
the north-north-east direction, which is an area where it
is dubious rebels could be. The Ukrainian Government
is using this tragedy to the full extent so as to incite
militaristic hysteria.

The very next day, the Ukrainian brass stepped up
artillery and bomb strikes against the cities of Donbas,
resulting in the deaths of dozens of civilians, including
women, children and the elderly. A bus stop was hit
yesterday, resulting in two deaths and 11 serious
injuries. Those are just the latest such incidents.

A Russian television station on the ground said that
today in Donetsk eight civilians had been killed and 30
wounded, including children. Meanwhile, a Ukrainian
newspaper reported that today five civilians had been
killed and 29 wounded. The websites of Ukrainian
militias say basically the same thing. In the city of
Stakhanaov, Luhansk district, up to 10 citizens were
killed today as a result of salvoes from multiple rocket
launchers. However, no one in Kyiv is conducting
funeral marches. It would seem that the fallen are going
unnoticed.

A significant military force in the south-east is
made up of the so-called "volunteer battalions", which
are funded by Ukrainian oligarchs and answer to no
one. Some of them openly use Nazi symbols. The
Kyiv authorities, while constantly referring to the
unity and territorial integrity of the country, have not
taken a single step towards genuine national dialogue
or constitutional reform with the participation of all
groups and regions. Moreover, Kyiv is doing everything
to cut off the south-east in practical terms. A decision
has been made to withdraw all State institutions and
terminate payments from the budget, including welfare
and pensions. The movement of persons and goods is
limited along the lines of engagement. Since 12 January,
transportation between Ukraine and Luhansk has been
at a standstill.

The humanitarian situation is catastrophic. Just
last summer, we raised this issue and proposed that the
Council adopt a draft resolution in this regard. Some
members of the Security Council, unfortunately, did not
heed our call. They hushed up the topic, waxed poetic
and squabbled about the number of victims required to
qualify the situation as a "humanitarian crisis". Today
there is no room for demagoguery. United Nations
humanitarian actors view the situation as a full-scale
crisis calling for a presence on the ground, clusters for
the delivery of humanitarian assistance and financing
humanitarian appeals.

They have recently reported a deterioration in
the situation regarding the delivery of aid due to
further obstruction from the Kyiv authorities. Russia
is providing significant humanitarian assistance to
Donbas, in spite of the controversy that some members
of the Council have attempted to raise in this regard.
At the same time, we continue to seek agreement with
Kyiv, in spite of its obstruction, on the conditions for the
provision of such supplies. We give timely information
regarding sending humanitarian convoys and cargo.
Aid is also going through various channels. Russia has
just decided to contribute $5 million to the World Food
Programme's humanitarian assistance to the people of
Ukraine.

The Minsk agreement, signed in September by
Kyiv and representatives of Luhansk and Donetsk
with the mediation of the OSCE and Russia, laid the
groundwork for a peaceful settlement. There is a need
for the swift resumption of practical work with the
contact group for their full implementation. For our
part, we are doing out utmost to ensure that the next
meeting in Minsk will take place as soon as possible.
We urge all responsible members of the international
community to put pressure on the Ukrainian authorities
to move away from confrontation and bring to an end
its policy on the forced suppression of the south-east.
They must understand that the most pressing need now
is to launch direct Ukraine-wide dialogue to discuss the
constitutional makeup of the country, which should be
comfortable and safe for all citizens without exception.

