Mr. Sergeyev (Ukraine): I apologise for taking
the floor again, but my country has been mentioned
several times in the past few minutes. I will make a
few comments on the so-called national dialogue on
decentralization in Ukraine and the humanitarian
situation.

As my colleague said, yesterday morning we sent
to all members of the Security Council - including
the Russian Federation - information on the social
and humanitarian situation in Donbas and the measures
taken by the Government of Ukraine to meet the
needs of the Ukrainian citizens in Donbas. Everything
is contained in that paper, so I do not know why the
Russian colleague has told the mistruth that we are not
commenting on Ukraine's policy of inclusiveness. It is
up to those present to decide.

On mobilization, yes, we are in the process of
reforming our army, which was fully destroyed in
recent years. Why are we doing that? Because of the
facts expressed today - the enlargement ofthe Russian
military presence in in Donbas, Ukraine, with thousands
of Russian nationals and sophisticated weaponry.
We have a right to defend ourselves. That is why we
are doing so, ourselves. Based on the United Nations
principle of collective self-defence, we have called on
many countries and organizations for assistance. It has
not been easy to get a response; we have not received
any weaponry equal to the Russians'. That is why we
are doing what we are doing to defend ourselves. It is
our right.

As to the issue of Ukrainian citizens, the paper
I mentioned is addressed to the Ukrainian citizens
in Donbas who are under the terrorist threat. Who
are we calling terrorists? Those who killed the
passengers of Flight MH-l7, those who killed priests
and those who killed civilians are terrorists and they
would be considered terrorists anywhere, whatever
their nationality or the threat they represent. We are
participating in the common fight against terrorism.
They are terrorists and they are called by that name
because their actions identify them as terrorists.

