Mr. Nduhungirehe (Rwanda): Madam President, I
would like to thank you for convening this meeting. I
would also like to thank Mr. Oscar Fernandez-Taranco,
Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs, and
Mr. Ivan Simonovie, Assistant Secretary-General for
Human Rights, for their respective briefings on the
political and human rights situation in Ukraine.

The Security Council has been preoccupied with the
conflict in Ukraine since February. In the intervening
months more than 3,700 people have been killed, more
than 9,000 civilians have been wounded and more
than 824,000 Ukrainians have been driven from their
homes. There are over 430,000 internally displaced
persons. The position of Rwanda is clear and constant;
it revolves around three key principles. The first is
putting a stop to the hostilities and ensuring respect for
the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity
of Ukraine. The second is promoting genuine dialogue
among Ukrainians, fostering national reconciliation,
establishing self-governance and promoting rights
for minorities. And the third is securing a diplomatic
settlement to the crisis, involving the countries and
organizations of the region.

It is in that context that Rwanda welcomes the
signing of the l2-point Minsk protocol agreement on
5 September, which declared a ceasefire in eastern
Ukraine, as well as its implementation memorandum of
19 September under the auspices ofthe trilateral contact
group. We note with satisfaction the steps already
taken by President Petro Poroshenko and the Ukrainian
Parliament to implement both agreements, namely
the implementation of the ceasefire, the exchange of
detainees and the adoption of laws on amnesty and self-
governance. We believe that the parliamentary elections
on Sunday will help implement those agreements, as
they are critical to the consolidation of democracy and
to diversity and the rule of law in Ukraine. We are,
however, concerned by the inflammatory statements
of armed separatists denouncing those elections, and
we emphasize that only elections organized by the
legitimate Government in Kyiv will be constitutional
and in line with the Minsk agreements.

Although the ceasefire had for a while raised hopes
for peace in Ukraine, we are perturbed by the statement
of the Prime Minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk
People's Republic officially declaring the end of the
ceasefire, in the wake of regular violations by armed
parties. In that context, we reiterate our call on all
illegal armed groups in Ukraine, mainly in the Donetsk
and Luhansk regions to lay down their arms, and we
urge the trilateral contact group to use its influence to
ensure that the work of the Special Monitoring Mission
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe is not hindered and that the Minsk protocol is
fully respected.

Rwanda is deeply troubled by the findings of
the six-month report of the United Nations Human
Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine. We condemn
the continuing terror activities of armed groups in
areas under their control, where they have perpetrated
killings, abductions, torture, ill treatment and other
serious human rights abuses, including the destruction
of housing and seizure of property. We equally condemn
the violations of international human rights law by
some of the volunteer battalions under the control of
the Government of Ukraine. Furthermore, we express
our concern about the use of heavy weaponry and the
indiscriminate shelling of densely populated areas,
including through the reported use of cluster munitions.
In the light of the response of the Ukrainian Government,
which denied the use of illegal munitions, we hope that
a full, thorough and independent investigation will be
conducted to shed light on those allegations.

More generally, given the dark picture of the human
rights situation in Ukraine, Rwanda urges all warring
parties to comply with international humanitarian and
human rights law. We welcome the commitment of
the Ukrainian Government to investigate the reported
human rights violations, including the reports of mass
graves, and we stress that the perpetrators, including
those who bear the command responsibility, should be
held accountable.

Allow me to conclude by noting that, with the
ongoing fighting, the fast-approaching winter season
and the current gas shortage in Ukraine, the eastern
part of the country is heading towards a humanitarian
catastrophe. We therefore call on the political leaders
in Ukraine, and those who have influence over them,
to show leadership and a sense of responsibility by
making sure that the ceasefire holds firm and by finding
a lasting political and diplomatic solution to a crisis that
has been going on for too long.

