I thank the Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs, Mr. Jeffrey Feltman, for his briefing.

The situation in eastern Ukraine is deteriorating in a worrying manner. Everything must be done so that it does not degenerate into an open conflict with incalculable consequences for international peace and security.

We are deeply concerned by the actions of pro-Russian militias separatists supported by Russia, who are clearly trying to destabilize the east of Ukraine and to prevent the holding of presidential elections on 25 May.

Faced with violations of its sovereignty and territorial integrity for two months now, the Ukrainian authorities have demonstrated restraint. They did not respond militarily to the occupation or annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. Until now, the Ukrainian authorities have shown the greatest of restraint in responding to the proliferation of cases of illegal occupation ofpublic buildings by armed militias, the growing number of attacks against Ukrainian security forces and the surge in violence against those demonstrating peacefully in favour of the unity of Ukraine in the east of the country.

We deeply regret that the confrontations today near Sloviansk and during the demonstrations in Odessa have led to deaths and scores of injured, according to media reports. We reiterate our call for the de-escalation of tensions and for restraint on all sides, fully in keeping with the joint statement adopted on 17 April in Geneva by the chief diplomats of Ukraine, Russia, the United States and the European Union. This is no time to tear up that agreement, but to uphold it. The loss of human life over the past few hours could have been avoided if all parties involved had done the necessary to implement the Geneva statement.

As we meet here, the situation on the ground is chaotic. The presence throughout the territory of Ukraine of impartial observers from the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is crucial for establishing the facts and defusing the war-mongering propaganda. Neutral monitoring and reporting of the facts will help create the conditions to de-escalate this dangerous situation.
The OSCE special monitoring mission must be able to fully carry out its work to support the de-escalation measures set out in the Geneva statement.

The safety of the international observers deployed across Ukraine must be guaranteed by all of the parties. We take this opportunity to reiterate our strong condemnation of the kidnapping of a team of military inspectors deployed under the OSCE 2011 Vienna Document. We reiterate our call on Russia to continue using all of its influence on the pro-Russian separatists to free, unconditionally and without delay, the seven monitors from OSCE participating States, whom they have been detaining in Sloviansk for one week now, as well as the Ukrainian personnel accompanying them.

Luxembourg continues to believe that a peaceful way out of this crisis can be found. Nothing can replace direct substantive dialogue between Kyiv and Moscow to find a diplomatic solution to the Ukrainian crisis.
For that dialogue to take place, we must urgently proceed to the de-escalation of tensions. We hope that Mr. Feltman's upcoming visit to Moscow and Kyiv will contribute to that. The good offices of the United Nations are needed now more than ever.

