Mr. Wu Haitao (China) (spoke in Chinese): China
welcomes the presence in the Security Council today
of Mr. Angelino Alfano, Chairperson-in-Office of
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) and Minister for Foreign Affairs and
International Cooperation of Italy, and we thank him
for his briefing.

All over the world, a wide spectrum of challenges
with increasingly complex risks are quickly emerging.
No country can respond to them alone, and no country
can remain immune. Global issues require global
solutions. Collective security requires collective
maintenance. While the United Nations is at the core
of the international collective-security architecture,
regional and subregional organizations also enjoy
unique advantages in resolving regional hot-spot issues.
China supports enhancing the cooperation between
the United Nations and regional and subregional
organizations, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the
Charter of the United Nations, with the aim of jointly
maintaining international peace and security. The
cooperation between the United Nations and regional
and subregional organizations should firmly uphold the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations while working diligently to address hot-spot
issues through dialogue and consultation and engaging
actively in preventive diplomacy with the aim of
defusing and resolving disputes peacefully.

The OSCE is an important partner of the United
Nations. In recent years it has been actively engaged in
preventive diplomacy, promoting security and mutual
trust among countries in the region and mediating
regional disputes, efforts that China appreciates and
applauds. We welcome Italy's decision to designate
dialogue, ownership and responsibility as its working
motto during its chairship-in-office, and to respond
actively to terrorism, illicit smuggling, transnational
crimes and refugee crises, among other challenges.
China supports practical and effective cooperation
between the Security Council and the OSCE in the
areas of peace and security, and we are eager to see the
OSCE continue to play an active and constructive role
in upholding regional peace, security and stability.

We welcome all the positive efforts being made by
all the parties concerned, including the OSCE, to find a
peaceful solution to the Ukrainian issue. We hope that
all the parties concerned will work to fully implement
the relevant Security Council resolutions and the Minsk
agreements, with the aim of reaching a comprehensive,
lasting and balanced solution to the question of Ukraine
through dialogue and consultation. The international
community should continue to support the diplomatic
efforts of all the parties concerned to arrive at a political
settlement of the Ukrainian issue so as to collectively
restore peace, stability and development in Ukraine as
soon as possible.

