Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): Before the beginning of today's meeting, we
were supposed to hold closed consultations to consider
whether or not the Security Council could make a
contribution to settling the Ukrainian crisis. However,
as colleagues have complained to us, the delegation of
the United States showed its hand, and we know why.
It was to create yet another propagandist controversy.
The representative of the United States went beyond the
Ukrainian topic and made a number of inappropriate
insinuations regarding Russia's policies. That is why
we need to talk about the United States policy.

Throughout the Ukrainian crisis, the United States
has played a destructive and - if we are to speak
frankly - a provocative role. After every visit of
high-ranking United States officials to Ukraine, the
Kyiv Government has stepped up the confrontational
nature of its activities, and the current military
escalation horrifically coincides with the visit to
Kyiv of the commander of the American forces in
Europe. It is surprising that wherever Washington,
DC, turns its gaze f be it Iraq, Libya, Syria,
Ukraine, everywhere - we see destabilization, crises
and bloodshed. Perhaps the United States believes
that Europe does not have enough problems and
that the eastern part of the continent needs a long,
drawn-out crisis. It would seem that some European
capitals - though not yet all, as demonstrated by
today's discussion - have begun to understand where
things are going.

Ms. Power and other colleagues talked about
certain conflicts that occurred as a result of the fall of
the Soviet Union, and for some reason blamed Russia
for them. I recall that the conflict in Transnistria could
have been settled back in 2005 ifWashington, D.C., had
not intervened at the last moment, convincing Chisinau
not to sign the prepared agreement. Abkhazia, in South
Ossetia, would not have declared its independence ifin
2001 Washington, DC, had not provoked an eruption
of the already unbalanced regime of Saakashvili.

I now come back to the subject of Ukraine. During
today's discussion, we have heard a number of specific
grievances against Russia. I would recommend that
colleagues carefully study the text of the major press
conference held in Moscow today by the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of our country, Mr. Sergey Lavrov, and
that they reread my statement.

In regard to the statement made by the Ukrainian
representative, I have only one thing to say. In all our
many discussions in the Security Council, the Ukrainian
delegation has never uttered a respectful word and has
actually been insulting when referring to the south-
eastern part of his country. He uses the terms "bandits"
and "terrorists". Sometimes the Ukrainian political elite
calls them "inhuman" or "insects". I have yet to hear
my Ukrainian colleagues raise the subject of inclusive
political dialogue. While the Kyiv Government does
not seem ready to take this up, it is now time to do so
with political courage and to understand that there is no
other way to keep Ukraine whole.

