Mr. Yelchenko (Ukraine): We warmly welcome
Mr. Steinmeier and wouldlike to thank him for his tireless
efforts on Ukraine, which have been demonstrated
once again in his briefing to the Security Council
today. I would like to express Ukraine's support for the
priorities for 2016 of Germany's Chairperson-in-Office
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE). We particularly commend Germany's
determination to focus its efforts on practical responses
to the grave threats to security in the OSCE's area of
operations. The Russian aggression against Ukraine in
Crimea and the Donbas region remains at the top of that
list. Due to necessity rather than any choice of ours, the
issue of that aggression will continue to be at the centre
ofthe OSCE's attention. Germany's participation in the
Normandy format negotiations will be very helpful to
the OSCE efforts in that regard.

Ukraine fully shares and supports the German
chairmanship's motto - "Renewing dialogue,
rebuilding trust, restoring security". It is a very accurate
description of what is needed for the situation not just
within the OSCE's purview but all over the world. Instead
of dialogue, we frequently witness bitter exchanges of
mutual accusations. These days, instead ofa climate of
trust, an overriding sense of mutual suspicion sets the
tone in international politics. Instead of having a sense
of secrity and confidence, States increasingly feel
threatened in the current environment of systematic
violations of international law, including the Charter
of the United Nations, and of a lack of international
instruments adequate to holding the perpetrators of
such violations to account. Under the circumstances
of these difficult times, Germany's commitment to
leading the OSCE is highly commendable. The German
chairmanship has set itself an ambitious and noble task.
It is a high bar, and I would like to assure Mr. Steinmeier
of our full support for his efforts.

The Security Council is vested with the primary
responsibility for maintaining international peace and
security. Still, one can hardly avoid noticing that the
dominant trend is worsening. The growing potential for
conflict across the globe is shaping our new security
reality, and one permanent member of the Security
Council has repeatedly resorted over the past decade
to the most problematic area of that reality - armed
aggression against neighbouring States in Europe that
has resulted in occupation and, even more alarmingly,
in the attempted annexation of part of the territory of
another country, the first such attempt since the Second
World War.

We have all been dealing with the Russian hybrid
war against Ukraine, which is marked by the invention
of artificial grounds for invasion, the deployment of
regular troops without insignia and the use ofpervasive,
virulent propaganda. That has led to the illegal
occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and
the city of Sevastopol and the plunging of the Donbas
region into a bloody conflict. Ukraine, like other
European States, also has to counter regular attempts
to destabilize its internal situation. The overall style of
such subversive activities is recognizable through its
use of similar tools such as marginal nationalist forces
operating under pseudo-patriotic slogans, including,
in the countries of the European Union, those voicing
anti-immigrant sentiments.

I have to express our deep concern about the fact
that the situation in Donbas remains fragile and prone to
escalation, despite the significant efforts of Ukraine and
the international community, including Mr. Steinmeier's
personal contribution as a member of the Normandy
ministerial framework. Ukraine's efforts to implement
the Minsk agreements have not been reciprocated in
Russia. Moscow still relies on the pseudo-republics it
has manufactured as a tool that may be activated at any
time the Kremlin considers expedient, including by
triggering new phases of conflict.

For Ukraine, the Minsk agreements remain the
agreed basis for a peaceful resolution to the situation
in Donbas. Since the initial documents were signed,
in September 2014, we have regularly initiated steps
aimed at silencing the weapons there. It is profoundly
regrettable that, a year after the Minsk package of
measures was agreed on, its initial security provisions
have yet to be implemented by Russia and its proxies.
We are ready to fully implement the agreements and
move forward with all aspects, including holding local
elections in various areas of Donbas, which must be
conducted in accordance with Ukrainian legislation
and OSCE standards in order to produce legitimate
regional representatives. Our constitutional reform
and decentralization will encompass the elected
representatives and provide them with powers,
responsibility and accountability. What we need in
order to move forward is a solid security foundation,
and in particular a comprehensive and sustainable
ceasefire, the verified withdrawal of heavy weapons
and unfettered monitoring by the OSCE throughout the
conflict area, including at the border with Russia.

As progress on the security track is long overdue,
we need to take decisive steps to establish the security
conditions necessary for a peaceful settlement in
Donbas. What is required is a genuine disengagement
line rather than a contact line, with weapons effectively
withdrawn, armed provocations by militants rendered
impossible and an enhanced international presence
capable of ensuring security on the ground, in addition
to the monitoring and verification functions that
the OSCE's Special Monitoring Mission currently
performs. We welcome the recent extension of the
mandate of the Special Monitoring Mission to Urkaine
upon Ukraine's request. While our invitation to deploy
a United Nations international peacekeeping operation
remains on the table, enhancing the OSCE capacities on
the ground and reinforcing them with a special police
mission under the auspices of the OSCE could become
an effective tool in bringing peace to Donbas.

It is evident that the uncontrolled segment of the
Ukrainian-Russian border makes the impact of all
international efforts on de-escalation very limited,
as replenishments to the illegal armed groups with
weapons and manpower from Russia continue. As
an agreed initial step until Ukrainian border guards
resume control at the border, permanent monitoring and
verification by the OSCE along all border sections of
concern from both sides ofthe border should be ensured,
as stipulated by the Minsk protocol of September 2014,
also signed by Russia.

The release of all hostages and illegally detained
persons, including Ukrainian political prisoners in
Russia, will be a crucial benchmark for assessing
Russia's readiness to embark on the de-escalation path.
It is one of the few provisions of the Minsk agreement
that contains a very specific timeframe, for apparent
humanitarian reasons, that is, within five days of the
withdrawal of heavy weapons from the contact line.

About two years ago Russia launched its aggression
against Ukraine in Crimea, trampling fundamental
international norms and principles, including those
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and the
Helsinki Final Act. The united international response
to Russia's illegal actions was delivered here in New
York on 27 March 2014, when the General Assembly
adopted its resolution 68/262, entitled "Territorial
integrity of Ukraine".

Echoed by other organizations and States across
the globe, the strong international condemnation
proves that the issue of the illegally occupied peninsula
is firmly on the agenda, whatever Russia claims. I am
absolutely convinced that an international framework
to address the Crimean case will be established sooner
or later, as that is the only way to guarantee the full
relevance of international law. Restoring respect for
the fundamental norms and principles of our peaceful
coexistence and cooperation and seeking their proper
implementation are in the interests of both the United
Nations and the OSCE.

Finally, allow me to express our deepest appreciation
to all colleagues around the table who spoke strongly
today in favour of the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of my country. That is an exremely powerful
message for those back home who stand fighting for it.

