Sir Mark Lyall Grant (United Kingdom): The
United Kingdom requested this morning's briefing
because we remain deeply concerned about the situation
in Ukraine. The illegal annexation of Crimea, the dire
human rights situation there and in the east of Ukraine
and Russia's failure to implement its commitments
under the Minsk agreements leave us in no doubt that
the situation continues to present a clear threat to
international peace and security.

I am grateful for Assistant Secretary-General
Simonovie's briefing. The United Kingdom welcomes
theworkoftheUnitedNationsHumanRightsMonitoring
Mission in Ukraine, whose objective and impartial
reporting cuts through Russia's misinformation and
propaganda. Its sixth report lays bare the grim reality
of life in separatist-controlled areas in Donetsk and
Luhansk, where "armed groups continued to terrorize
the population" and "there is a complete breakdown
of law and order". In those areas, killings, abductions,
torture and other serious human rights abuses carry
on unchecked, and neither protection nor justice is
available to victims. The Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) is
rightly concerned about a lack of accountability. It is
essential that independent investigations take place
into all serious allegations of violations, whoever the
perpetrators are.

We are troubled by the Human Rights Watch report
this week, which alleges the use of cluster munitions by
the Ukrainian army. We are aware that Ukraine refutes
those allegations and denies that the Ukrainian army
uses such munitions. We also note that the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has
said today that its monitors have seen no evidence of
cluster bombs, and we welcome Ukraine's commitment
to cooperating with Human Rights Watch and to a
further investigation into those claims.

We are deeply perturbed by the OHCHR report's

account of a deteriorating human rights situation in the
illegally annexed Crimean peninsula. The introduction
of Russian Federation legislation, in contravention of
General Assembly resolution 68/262, has curtailed the
freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, association,
religion and belief. The treatment of the Crimean Tatar
population is particularly troubling. Russia has often
claimed to have concerns about the rights of minority
populations in Ukraine, but we see no evidence of that
concern for the rights of the Tatars in Crimea.

The humanitarian situation in the areas controlled
by the armed separatist groups remain precarious and
will become even more serious as winter approaches.
But the sending of convoys into Ukraine by Russia
without the agreement of the Government of Ukraine
and in breach of Ukraine's sovereignty is a provocative
act and must not be repeated. Humanitarian assistance
is necessary, but it must be provided in an international
effort coordinated by the appropriate agencies and with
the agreement of the Government of Ukraine. If Russia
wants to help improve the lives of civilians living in
east Ukraine, it should immediately withdraw its
remaining military forces from Ukraine, stop its flow
of weapons to the separatists and instead help to restore
Ukrainian sovereignty and to secure a political solution
to the crisis.

Assistant Secretary-General Fernandez-Taranco's
briefing described the fragility of the situation in
eastern Ukraine where fighting continues and violations
of the ceasefire continue on a daily basis. The Minsk
agreements offer a real prospect of de-escalating
tensions in eastern Ukraine. All parties must match
words with actions and implement the commitments
they have made. The Government of Ukraine has taken
important steps, including the approval of a special
status for districts of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions
and an amnesty law which, the OHCHR report notes,
meets international human rights standards. And the
Government is now preparing for local elections to be
held under Ukrainian law in separatist-controlled areas
of Luhansk and Donetsk.

Russia, by contrast, continues to supply separatists
with weapons and material, including multiple rocket
launchers and artillery, continues to maintain several
hundred of its forces in Ukrainian territory and, in yet
another ominous reminder of the tactics it used to shape
the frozen conflicts in Moldova and Georgia, is handing
out passports to individuals in separatist-held areas.
As the Minsk agreements make clear, in order for the
situation in eastern Ukraine to stabilize, it is vital that
all illegally armed groups, military equipment, fighters
and mercenaries be withdrawn and the Ukrainian-

Russian border secured with increased monitoring
under OSCE verification.

If Russia is committed to those agreements, then
why on Wednesday of this week, in Vienna, did it block
the expansion of the OSCE border-monitoring mission?
That violates article 4 of the Minsk protocol and
demonstrates that Russia is seeking to prevent effective
monitoring of its border so that it may continue to supply
weapons and equipment to militant groups. Stability
will not be restored if Russia continues to support
separatist groups Whose leaders have expressed their
intentions to expand the territory under their control.

This Sunday's parliamentary elections mark
Ukraine's commitment to democracy. They must be
allowed to go ahead without external influence. The
Ukrainian authorities are taking steps to ensure that as
many Ukrainian citizens as possible can exercise their
right to vote, including by putting in place arrangements
for people displaced from their homes by the instability
in the east and those from the illegally annexed territory
of Crimea.

Our expectation is that Russia, as a permanent
member of the Security Council and as a party to
the Minsk agreements, will work to restore peace
and security in Ukraine by respecting the outcome
of the elections and by supporting the forthcoming
local elections held under Ukrainian law. We urge the
Russians not to renege on the commitments they have
made, but rather to use their influence to prevent the
organization of any separate elections by separatists in
Donetsk or Luhansk in November. Such elections would
be illegal, would contravene the Minsk agreements, and
would present a significant obstacle to a lasting peace
in Ukraine.

