Mr. Rycroft (United Kingdom): I would like to
welcome Foreign Minister Kurz to the Security Council
and thank him for his briefing today. His chairmanship
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE), together with Austria's hosting of the
OSCE, as well as parts ofthe United Nations, showsjust
how central his country is to international cooperation
and the rule-based system.

Sadly, as we heard here yesterday (see S/PV.7886),
the rule-based system is under threat. It is a threat
that we talk about often in this Chamber, but to the
residents of cities such as Marinka, in Ukraine, that
threat is a horrifying daily reality. For the past three
years, the people there have lived in fear, subject to the
daily unrelenting dangers that have become the norm
on the front line in eastern Ukraine. Residents there
speak of daily sniper fire and shelling, and the daily
scramble for shelter. For nearly three years, they have
survived Without gas supplies in the face of plummeting
temperatures every winter. Those are the consequences
of Russia's violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and
territorial integrity.
That is what happens when the rule-based system
is attacked. We cannot allow it to become the new
normal, and we must use all the tools at our disposal
in response. The OSCE has a critical role to play,
and I would particularly like to commend the role of
the OSCE's Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine,
working tirelessly under the able direction of Chief
Monitor Apakan. It is thanks to the bravery of the
OSCE's monitors that we know what is going on in
places like Marinka. It is thanks to them that we know
that ceasefire violations have already reached record
highs this year.

It is unacceptable that the Mission continues to
be fired on and face restrictions on its access. Such
actions, so often perpetrated by the separatists, only
fuel suspicions that they are concealing activity that is
at odds with the Minsk agreements. I hope, therefore,
that we can all be clear today that aggression towards
monitors must stop and that the Mission must be given
unrestricted access to all of Ukraine, including the
disengagement areas and those parts of the border with
Russia that are not under Ukraine's control.

As we heard yesterday, the long-term solution to
the situation in eastern Ukraine requires Russia to end
its destabilizing activities in the region, comply with its
commitments under the Minsk agreements, withdraw its
weapons and personnel, use its considerable influence
over the separatists to bring an end to the killing and
return Crimea to its rightful place as part of Ukraine.
That is the only meaningful path to long-term peace
in Ukraine, and until it is taken, the sanctions against
Russia must remain in place.

Beyond Ukraine, we should not lose sight of the
Council's need to work closely with the Austrian
chairmanship of the OSCE in resolving other
issues affecting the region and in helping to protect
fundamental rights and freedoms. Those issues include
the protracted conflicts in Abkhazia, South Ossetia,
Transnistria and Nagorno Karabakh. We also value the
vital role that the OSCE plays in risk reduction in the
region, and we welcome the launch of the structured
dialogue. We support the Chairperson-in-Office's
focus on youth and radicalization, where the OSCE,
with its cross-dimensional approach to security, can
add real value.

If the OSCE is to respond to those and other
challenges, we must also continue to strengthen it. One
way to do that is through strong appointments, and I
am pleased that the United Kingdom has put forward
an excellent candidate for the post of OSCE High
Commissioner on National Minorities, in a sign of our
continued commitment to the organization. We are also
pleased that our Ambassador to the OSCE is chairing
the OSCE Human Dimension Committee this year and
working closely with the Austrian chairship.

In conclusion, events in eastern Ukraine have
reinforced just how important the OSCE is to
international cooperation. The work being done there
is vital to the beleaguered residents of Marinka and to
all Ukrainians in the eastern part of the country. Sadly,
events in Ukraine highlight the threats that countries
in the OSCE area, and the rule-based system as a
whole, continue to face. If we are to respond to them
effectively, we must continue to strengthen the OSCE,
and with it the Security Council's cooperation.

