Mr. Gombo (Chad) (spoke in French): I would like
to join others in thanking Mr. Oscar Fernandez-Taranco,
Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs, and
Mr. Ivan Simonovic', Assistant Secretary-General for
Human Rights, for their briefings.

Chad continues to be gravely concerned by the
deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in
Ukraine, especially in the eastern part of the country.
On the humanitarian level, Chad notes that despite the
Minsk agreement of 5 September, which includes the
ceasefire agreement, the use of heavy weapons and
bombings in inhabited areas continue on a daily basis.
We are all the more concerned because, according to
certain sources, the Ukrainian army and separatist
forces are using cluster bombs in their confrontations
in eastern Ukraine. As the Council is aware, such
weapons cause severe harm. Sometimes, when a
bomb does not explode immediately, it becomes the
equivalent of a mine. Chad emphatically condemns the
use of those weapons of mass destruction in violation
of international treaties and calls for an immediate
cessation of hostilities.

On the humanitarian level, the figures demonstrate
that civilian victims have increased sharply in this
situation of intensified combat. According to the report
of the Office of the High Commissioner of Human
Rights, over 3,000 people have been killed to date and
9,000 have been injured in eastern Ukraine. Despite
the truce of7 September, another 350 people have been
killed. As for the internally displaced persons, Ukraine
has over 400,000.

It is a dire moment. The majority of the population
in the conflict zones are facing substantial difficulties,
with no access to education, sanitary facilities, shelter
or work. Furthermore, with the advent of winter and
the stalemate in the negotiations between the Russian
Federation and Ukraine on the provision of natural
gas, we fear that millions of people will be subjected
to an untenable situation. In the regions of Donetsk and
Luhansk, thousands of people have been deprived of
income because nearly 40,000 small and medium-sized
businesses have closed shop due to the fighting.

Moreover, war-related practices - torture,
abduction, illegal detention, intimidation, confiscation
of goods, summary and arbitrary execution and acts
of sexual violence - are being committed against the
civilian population by Government forces as well as
by separatists, and are unacceptable. Chad condemns
all acts of violence and violations of human rights and
international humanitarian law.

Given the scope of the conflict and despite the
repeated calls of the international community and the
Security Council, Chad believes that the situation is not
simply fragile, as stated in the report; rather, we are on
the verge of an acute humanitarian crisis. In View of
the situation, Chad urges the parties to the conflict to
exercise restraint and calm, and calls on the countries
with influence over the actors on the ground to exert all
efforts to find a political solution to the crisis, which
has lasted too long.

Chad congratulates the Government of Ukraine
on its peacemaking and peacebuilding efforts in
Ukraine. First was the signing of the Minsk accord
and memorandum under the auspices of the Trilateral
Contact Group on 19 September. Then, on 16 September,
the Ukrainian Parliament ratified the law on special
autonomy for certain regions of Donetsk and Luhansk,
the law on amnesty and the immediate release of all
hostages and detained persons. Those efforts must
continue. The elections scheduled for Sunday will be
another key step of the will for peace in Ukraine.

The humanitarian situation requires responsibility
on the part of the authorities and political actors. Lasting
solutions must be provided to the affected population,
making a priority of the structural issues affecting
human rights, in conformity with international norms,
the recommendations contained in the report of the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights on the human rights situation in
Ukraine, and in the framework of respect for General
Assembly resolution 68/262, on Ukraine's sovereignty
and territorial integrity.

