Ms. Murmokaite (Lithuania): An undeclared war
is being waged by Russia against Ukraine. By now, it is
barely making the world's headlines because it is slow
and creeping - a few more metres of captured land,
a few more explosions, a few more Russian tanks, a
few more dead at a time. As Europe marks the twenty-
fifth anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the
reunification of Europe, Russia is doing its best to
resuscitate the bygone era of division and brinkmanship,
continuing its aggression against Ukraine, buttressed
by bogus claims of defending Russian speakers from
the advances of fascism and by outlandish accusations
against Europe and the West.

The abduction of an Estonian intelligence officer on
the Estonia side of the border and of a Ukrainian pilot in
Ukraine; the alarming rise in the intensity and gravity
of provocations involving Russian reconnaissance and
fighterjets over an increasing territory, from the Baltic
Sea region to Portugal, the United States, Canada
and Japan - all point to a more aggressive unilateral
Russian military posture going well beyond Ukraine's
borders.

The conflict in Ukraine is not an internal affair.
It is neither a civil war nor a rebellion of disgruntled
citizens. It is Russia's war against Ukraine for daring
to choose a different, European path. Sponsored by the
Kremlin, the illegal armed separatists, many of whom
carry Russian passports, have inflicted heavy damage
on the Ukrainian forces and civilian population before
and during the ceasefire, using sophisticated weaponry,
tanks, multiple rocket launchers and heavy artillery.
While Ukraine honoured the ceasefire agreement,
Russia-backed separatists used the time to rearm and
grab more territory. By now, those illegal armed groups
are probably better armed than some of the smaller
European armies - all thanks to Russia's continued
support and supplies.

We are profoundly worried by the recent reports
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) Special Special Monitoring Mission
in Ukraine, registering unmarked convoys of trucks
carrying substantial amounts of heavy weaponry,
ammunition, Grad multiple-launch rocket systems and
howitzers, as well as armoured personnel carriers and
tanks, moving cross the border and westwards inside
the separatist held areas. That is a clear and blatant
violation of the ceasefire agreement, which called for
the withdrawal of Russian weapons and troops from
Ukraine and a sealing of the border under international
observation. Let us not forget that despite relevant
provisions ofthe Minsk protocol on the establishment of
a permanent OSCE presence along the Ukraine-Russia
border, Russia single-handedly prevented the expansion
of such a presence on the border, as a result of which
OSCE observers monitor only 2 kilometres of the
Russia-Ukraine border out of a total of 400 kilometres.
The holding by the separatists ofillegal elections in
eastern Ukraine is another clear violation of the Minsk
agreements. Russia alone endorsed those sham elections
and even arranged the presence of "observers" - a
bunch of hard-line nationalists, Nazi sympathizers and
xenophobes, tried and tested in the illegal plebiscite
in Crimea. If Council members google the name
of Mateusz Piskorski, they will find him posing in
front of a swastika flag. Frank Creyelman is an open
xenophobe, known for demanding amnesty for those
who collaborated with the Hitler regime during the
Second World War. Marton Gyongyosy once suggested
that Hungarian Jews should be tallied up because they
pose a threat to the State. Srda Trifkovie is defender of
Slobodan Milosevic and an Islamophobe. Ewald Stadler
is known for delivering one of the most racist speech
ever in a European parliament. The list could go on.

It is with the help of such odious characters that
Moscow is "fighting Fascism" in Ukraine. Little does it
matter that Ukraine's population squarely rejected the
extreme forces during the recent national elections. As
Russia flirts with Europe's extremist fringe, the myth
of Ukraine's fascist junta continues to be advanced
by Russia's propaganda machine. What the Russian
propaganda machine will not say, however, is that since
Russian troops "liberated" Crimea, the human rights
situation in the region has deteriorated dramatically,
and that the separatist-held regions in eastern Ukraine
have been repeatedly described by United Nations
human rights reports as an abyss of lawlessness and
criminality.

Russia's disdain for the internationally accepted
norms of behaviour, international law and the Charter
of the United Nations is astounding, including the
manipulation of all things humanitarian. Under
the pretext of humanitarian aid, we have seen the
preparation of what may be the seventh convoy now to
be sent into Ukraine without Ukraine's consent and in
violation of Ukraine's borders. While the humanitarian
needs in the region have not diminished and remain
dire, the armed separatists have been gaining ground
with each new convoy. Today, the cost of Russia's
aggression against Ukraine is some 400,000 displaced,
at least 4,000 killed, over 9,000 wounded, and some
5.2 million people living in conflict-affected areas.
The result of Russia's aggression against Ukraine is
also Russia's own young men returning home dead and
anonymous in the notorious Cargo 200 boxes.

The Geneva statement, the Berlin joint declaration,
the Minsk protocol and Minsk memorandum are
the latest additions to the long list of documents and
treaties that Russia has breached, from the 1991 Alma-
Ata Declaration, the 1994 Budapest Memorandum
on Security Assurances, the 1997 Black Sea
FleetAgreement Between the Russian Federation and
Ukraine, and the Charter of the United Nations itself.
Only a full and sustainable return to the ceasefire by all
parties can defuse this increasingly bloody crisis before
it gets completely out of hand - and that, with Russian
troops amassed near Ukraine's borders and increasing
military movements in separatist held areas, could
happen at any time.

Ukraine has been doing its part, and must continue
to do so, by pursuing a wide range of necessary
reforms, fighting corruption and reaching out to the
affected regions to rebuild popular trust in the national
Government. The onus, however, is on Russia and
its militant proxies in eastern Ukraine to do theirs.
Russia must stop threatening its neighbours, accept
the spirit and letter of the Minsk agreements and allow
unhindered international monitoring of the Ukrainian-
Russian border. Russia must disown the separatists and
condemn all attempts on the part of the self-proclaimed
leaders to create parallel power structures in eastern
Ukraine. As per the Minsk agreements, it must also
withdraw its equipment, weapons and troops from
Ukrainian territory and seal its borders to the movement
of arms and mercenaries into the separatist-held areas.

A peaceful settlement of the crisis in eastern
Ukraine is squarely in Russia's hands. It bears full
responsibility for the further escalation of the situation,
and for creating another frozen conflict in Europe.
Attempts to redraw Europe's borders by military force
25 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall are criminal
and undermine the very foundations on which the
United Nations is built.

My delegation thanks the OSCE and the United
Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights for the important observation and monitoring
work that is being done on the ground, and stresses
the importance of ensuring their continuing reporting
and presence in the conflict-affected area. Providing
an objective, unbiased alternative narrative is critical
as Russia's propaganda machinery expands its reach.
My delegation reiterates its full support to Ukraine's
independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial
integrity. Ukraine's European choice is not an imposition
from the outside. It is the choice of the Ukrainian
people who a year ago showed clearly that they have
had enough of corruption, enough of cronyism, enough
of kleptocracy. That choice was reaffirmed in the recent
national elections and must be respected by all.

