Let me start by congratulating you, Mr. President, on your assumption of the presidency of the Security Council for the month of May. We wish you every success in fulfilling that duty. We also want to thank the Nigerian delegation for its successful presidency last month. I would also like to extend our thanks to the Security Council delegations for their support of, and solidarity with, the Government and the people of Ukraine. I also thank Mr. Feltman for his briefing today.

Ukraine remains committed to the implementation of the agreements reached at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the European Union and the United States in Geneva on 17 April. Free and fair presidential elections on 25 May remain a top priority of the Government of Ukraine.

We reject all attempts by Russia to blame the Government of Ukraine for allegedly failing to implement the agreements. We wouldl ike to say that, despite numerous calls by the international community, the Russian Federation has made no efforts to de-escalate the situation and implement the Geneva agreement. Instead, Russia strongly supports illegal militant groups operating in the eastern region of Ukraine, endangering civilians, seizing hostages and creating an atmosphere of terror and violence.

Security, as well as the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of all the people of Ukraine, remains a top priority for the Government of Ukraine. Therefore, the purpose of the counter-terrorist operation, the active phase of which has been renewed in Sloviansk, is to isolate illegal militants from the civilian population of the city. The commander of the counter-terrorist operation has ordered the heavily armed illegal militants to immediately free all hostages, including monitors of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to evacuate all seized administrative buildings and to stop the violence and massacres. The Ukrainian authorities are ready to provide amnesty to all those members of militant groups who have not committed serious crimes. Inclusive political dialogue with peaceful protesters remains a top priority for the Ukrainian Government.

We officially state that no tanks or missiles are used against civilians. Russian statements about the participation of non-governmental armed groups in the counter-terrorist operation are not true. Russian statements as to the involvement of English-speaking foreigners are absolutely cynical and false. We officially state that the only foreign military personnel in eastern Ukraine are Russian saboteurs and mercenaries.

The Ukrainian side, as well as the Russian Embassy in Kyiv, was not duly informed about today's arrival in Ukraine ofVladimir Lukin, the so-called representative of the Russian President whose mission is, as he says, to contribute to the liberation of the hostages taken in eastern Ukraine. Despite the circumstances of Mr. Lukin's arrival, and taking into account the highest priority that the Ukrainian Government attaches to the release of all hostages held by illegal militants, we are ready to discuss with Mr. Lukin, as with other interested mediators, his practical contribution in order to resolve the problem.

I would like to remind the Council that, due to the particularly dangerous situation in Sloviansk, in accordance with our 2003 law on combating terrorism, Ukraine's National Security and Defence Council has taken the decision to launch a large-scale counter-terrorism operation. Owing to increasing threats to the civilian population, this morning the active phase of that counter-terrorism operation was renewed in the area of the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, where units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Guard and the Ukrainian Border Service were engaged.
The counter-terrorist operation is being implemented exclusively by the law-enforcement agencies of Ukraine.

At the moment, nine terrorist checkpoints have been taken under the control of Ukrainian law-enforcement agencies in Sloviansk. The illegal militants, many of whom are foreign mercenaries, are using heavy firearms against the Ukrainian special forces. They have shot down two Ukrainian helicopters with rocket-propelled grenades, man-portable air defence system guided missiles and anti-aircraft guns. Two officers have been killed and seven wounded. The terrorists do not hesitate to use members of the local peaceful population as human shields. The brutal tactic of firing from residential buildings is used widely in Sloviansk by the terrorists, who are very well aware of the Government instructions to its law-enforcement agents not to answer fire coming from residential buildings.

I would also like to mention that this evening there were also attempts to break through the State border by groups of armed Russian saboteurs, who were stopped by our guards. That is why we call on our Russian partners to immediately stop supporting all the illegal militants on Ukraine's territory and other actions aimed at undermining the sovereignty and territorial integrity of my country.

In conclusion, I would like to cite the statement made today by Mr. Oleksandr Turchynov, Acting President of Ukraine. He said that Ukraine demands that terrorist saboteurs and all those who have taken up arms in our country lay down their weapons and surrender their hostages and occupied administrative buildings. Those who lay down their arms and are not involved in serious crimes will be given amnesty, but those accused of murder and torture will be punished.
Ukraine, he said, would secure peace and stability in spite of all the efforts to organize acts provocation and unrest aimed at destabilizing the situation in the east and and south of the country, particularly in Kharkiv and Odessa. He said that he would also like to appeal to the leadership of the Russian Federation to end the hysteria about the events taking place in Ukraine and to cease its threats and intimidation. If it is concerned about violations of citizens' rights, it should protect them in its own country, where human rights are systematically violated. He also called on Russia to end its acts of provocation against Ukraine and to refrain from using terrorism, sabotage and military threats as a form of pressure on it. Despite all the problems and opposition, he said, peace would be ensured in Ukraine and the terrorist threat in eastern Ukraine would be stopped.

