Ms. Sfider (Sweden): Let me begin by welcoming the
Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Minister Alfano,
to the Security Council. The OSCE, as the largest
regional security organization under Chapter VIII of
the Charter of the United Nations, has an indispensable
role to play in upholding the rules-based order in the
European region to promote cooperation and security. I
thank the Minister for his comprehensive briefing and I
would like to assure him of our full support.

The Secretary-General has clearly outlined
the importance of regional organizations in the
maintenance of international peace and security,
and his ambition to further enhance cooperation and
coordination with those organizations. In that regard,
there is clear potential for greater United Nations-
OSCE collaboration, particularly in the search for
solutions to conflicts in Europe, which the Secretary-
General has identified as a key priority. The OSCE's
three dimensions of security are an operationalization
of the broad concept of security, which the United
Nations has also made its own, with sustaining peace
at its heart. Through closer collaboration on issues of
mutual concern, the United Nations and the OSCE can
increase the strength and effectiveness of the work of
both organizations.

The OSCE represents one of the most advanced
levels of security cooperation in any region in the world.
Its strength lies in a set of fundamental principles, to
which we, as members, have all committed. However,
today there are challenges to what we have agreed.
For that reason, it is essential that the OSCE focus on
its core business. A frank and open dialogue among
participating States, aimed at restoring respect for our
commonly agreed principles and commitments - as
enshrined, most notably, in the Helsinki Final Act and
the Paris Charter - is needed. It is essential that the
comprehensive concept of security and the OSCE's
role be upheld. In particular, it is vital that the OSCE's
human dimension and autonomous institutions
are safeguarded.

Trust lies at the heart of conflict prevention and
conflict resolution. Russia's ongoing aggression against
Ukraine, its illegal annexation of Crimea and military
actions in eastern Ukraine seriously challenge the
rules-based European security order and erode that
trust. Rebuilding trust and confidence can happen
through a renewed respect for the common principles
and commitments to which we have all agreed. We
therefore welcome the Italian chairpersonship's
emphasis on substantive dialogue on issues that are at
the core of the OSCE mandate.

Sweden will always be clear, consistent and
principled when it comes to violations of the Charter
of the United Nations, as well as on the European
rules-based security order. We strongly support
the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine,
which must be given full, safe and unhindered access
throughout Ukraine. A possible United Nations peace
mission in eastern Ukraine must have as its objective
the restoration of Ukraine's sovereignty and its
internationally recognized borders. The Minsk process
needs to be pursued and there must be delivery on
its commitments.

The protracted conflicts in Georgia, Moldova and
Nagorno Karabakh are of great concern to the common
OSCE acquis. Through the OSCE and the European
Union, we continue to support peacebuilding measures
and conflict resolution in Georgia, including through
co-chairpersonship of the Geneva international
discussions and the European Union Monitoring
Mission on the ground. In those contexts, it is of
particular importance that the United Nations and
the OSCE reinforce their cooperation and dialogue
and coordinate activities to jointly pursue conflict
prevention and peacebuilding. We see a good example
of informal cooperation on the ground in Ukraine,
where the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission and the
United Nations human rights monitoring mission are
both operating.

Women's participation in all aspects of
peacebuilding and sustaining peace must be ensured.
We welcome the Italian chairpersonship's intention to
mainstream a gender perspective into all ofits activities.
Gender aspects, including the implementation of
resolution 1325 (2000), must be an integral part of all
our security-related work, both in Vienna and in the
field missions.

In conclusion, the Council, by working together
with the OSCE, can more effectively promote human
rights, the rule of law and democracy, and ensure peace
and security in Europe. That collaboration could be a
model for United Nations cooperation with other regions
that are in need of regional collaborative and security
arrangements. In doing so, the Council can make full
use of Chapter VIII of the Charter and encourage the
settlement of disputes through regional arrangements.

