Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) (spoke in Chinese): China
welcomes the presence at today's meeting of His
Excellency Mr. Sebastian Kurz, Chairperson-in-Office
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) and the Federal Minister for Europe,
Integration and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of
Austria, and we thank him for his briefing.

The world today is filled with various types of
challenges. Countries are interdependent, and their
security is interconnected. While the United Nations
is at the core of the international collective-security
architecture, regional and subregional organizations
enjoy unique advantages in resolving hot-spot issues in
their respective regions. China supports enhancing the
cooperation between the United Nations and regional
and subregional organizations, in accordance with
Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, so
as to jointly safeguard international peace and security.

The cooperation between the United Nations and
regional and subregional organizations should, while
steadfastly upholding the purposes and principles of
the Charter of the United Nations, seek vigorously to
promote dialogue and consultation aimed at addressing
regional and hot-spot issues, actively engage in
preventive diplomacy, resolve disputes through
peaceful means and defuse conflicts. All relevant
actions by the regional and subregional organizations
concerned should observe the purposes and principles
of the United Nations Charter, in particular respect for
the principles of the sovereignty, independence and
territorial integrity of States.

The OSCE is an important partner of the United
Nations. In recent years, the OSCE has been actively
engaged in preventive diplomacy, promoting mutual
trust among countries in the region and in endeavouring
to settle disputes through mediation. China expresses
its appreciation to the OSCE for its efforts.
We welcome the priorities set by Austria as the
OSCE Chairperson-in-Office aimed at defusing armed
conflicts, countering violent extremism and building
mutual trust. China supports effective and pragmatic
cooperation between the Security Council and the
OSCE in the fields of peace and security, and it is our
hope that the OSCE will continue to play an active and
constructive role in upholding regional peace, security
and stability.

With respect to the question of Ukraine, the parties
concerned, including the OSCE, have made some
positive efforts, which China welcomes. We hope
that the situation in Ukraine will improve as soon as
possible. We also hope that all parties concerned will
fully implement resolution 2202 (2015) and the Minsk
agreements and seek a comprehensive, lasting and
balanced solution to the question of Ukraine through
dialogue and consultation.

The international community should keep up
its support for the diplomatic efforts of the parties
concerned aimed at finding a political settlement of the
question of Ukraine and at joining forces in contributing

to the achievement of peace, stability and development
in the country at an early date.

