Mrs. Perceval (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): I,
too, would like to thank Assistant Secretary-General
for Political Affairs Oscar Fernandez-Taranco for his
briefing on the developments in Ukraine and on the
involvement of the United Nations. I also welcome the
presence of the Permanent Representative of Ukraine
at this meeting.

Argentina continues to follow the situation
with concern, in particular in the east of Ukraine.
Undoubtedly, the situation has deteriorated, with
further tensions and violence, and we cannot remain
indifferent to that. We are deeply concerned that the
tension and violence may continue and indeed worsen.
We are also concerned about the consequences for
Ukraine and the region.

The delegation of Argentina reiterates that it
is essential that we adhere to the principles that we
subscribe to as Members of the United Nations. In
particular, we must remember our commitment to
non-interference in the internal affairs of States,
whether militarily, politically or economically. In
that respect, we believe that the action of any State or
international organization must duly respect Ukraine's
handling of its own affairs. As we have expressed on
several occasions, the situation will not be resolved
through any kind of unilateral action. It is crucial that
the use of force be avoided. We join the Secretary-
General today in calling on all parties to endeavour
to bring calm to the situation. Maximal self-restraint
must be shown, and constructive dialogue sought and
established on an urgent basis in order to de-escalate
the situation and address the parties' differences.

In conclusion, Argentina will continue to promote
dialogue and a peaceful settlement of the crisis. It is
essential to step up efforts to create the conditions
necessary for urgent dialogue to begin so that solutions
can be found to the parties' differences and the interests
of all minorities are taken into account. The multilateral
meeting among the United States, the Russian
Federation and the European Union that is planned
for Thursday, 17 April will present an opportunity to
do so. We hope that those main actors will be able to
achieve the agreement necessary. We reiterate that the
international community should concentrate its efforts
on establishing dialogue. We stress that Ukrainians
must have a democratic and peaceful outcome to the
situation.

