Ms. Tachco (United States of America): I
thank Foreign Minister Alfano for his briefing on
the activities of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and for his leadership of
the organization. The United States greatly appreciates
the OSCE's efforts in promoting security, stability
and good governance in the region and throughout the
world. We offer our full support to the organization and
to Italy in its chairship.
The OSCE has been critical to developing a robust
European and Eurasian security architecture. The
United States greatly appreciates the contributions it
has made over more than 40 years in helping to underpin
stability, security and prosperity throughout the region.
As an OSCE participating State, the United States
supports its partners and reaffirms its own commitment
to that crucial effort. In order to strengthen the OSCE's
utility and preserve its function as a primary forum for
an open dialogue on core European security concerns,
we strongly support the continuation of its structured
dialogue on current and future challenges and risks.
That initiative has opened up productive and frank
deliberations among participating States, fostering
mutual understanding and cooperation in addressing
the leading challenges of our day.

One of the greatest security and humanitarian
challenges the OSCE is facing today is the continuing
crisis in eastern Ukraine, where Russian acts of
aggression have claimed more than 10,000 lives. Russia
and the forces it arms, trains, leads and fights alongside
have perpetuated the conflict for too long. The United
States commends the OSCE's efforts to resolve the
conflict in eastern Ukraine. We recognize in particular
the essential role of the OSCE Special Monitoring
Mission to Ukraine, which remains the international
community's best source of impartial information
on the significant toll that the conflict in eastern
Ukraine has taken on the country's people, land and
infrastructure. The fact that Russia, a member of the
OSCE, continues to drive the conflict is a terrible irony.
The OSCE's role in facilitating humanitarian work
has been critical to alleviating the suffering caused
by four years of aggression. We applaud the courage
and dedication of the Monitoring Mission's unarmed
monitors and strongly support efforts to ensure their
safety in carrying out their critical mission.

The United States continues to support the Minsk
agreements and their full implementation as the best
path to restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity and
alleviating the suffering in the Donbas region. While
both sides must implement their Minsk commitments,
Russia can single-handedly bring peace and end the
conflict by withdrawing its forces. We also call for
an end to Russia's occupation of Crimea, which has
contributed to needless violence, displacement and
death for too long. Beyond Ukraine, the United States
welcomes and supports the OSCE's continuing efforts
to resolve the conflicts in Nagorno Karabakh, Georgia
and Transnistria. It must remain focused on those
protracted conflicts in order to underscore the fact
that frozen and status-quo conflicts are completely
antithetical to the peace, stability and security priorities
of the OSCE and the international community.

The OSCE's crucial role in strengthening security
and stability, addressing the humanitarian needs of
conflict-afflicted populations and promoting good
governance in its region cannot be overstated. The
United States fully supports the OSCE's comprehensive
approach to addressing critical security challenges.
We also unequivocally affirm its importance as a
partner to the United Nations and in particular to the
Security Council in protecting and promoting peace
and prosperity.

