Mr. Oyarzun Marchesi (Spain) (spoke in Spanish):
I thank you, Sir, for having convened this meeting. I
also thank Under-Secretary-General Feltman for his
briefing.

Ukraine has a democratic Constitution and is
implementing a process of reform. Ukraine made
a decisive contribution to nuclear non-proliferation
when it decided in 1994 to renounce nuclear weapons.
Ukraine is a crucial player in the international order.
We unreservedly support its territorial integrity. Given
these facts, there should be no violence in Ukraine.
However, today we are meeting once again due to an
extremely serious deterioration in the situation.

Spain would have liked the Council to adopt a
statement. Unfortunately, this was not the case. I
therefore vigorously and unreservedly condemn the
bombing of urban areas in the city of Mariupol, which
claimed tens of civilian victims and injured more than
100. I express the condolences of my country and my
delegation to the families of the victims and to the
people and Government of Ukraine. They can count on
Spain's solidarity.

According to the information provided yesterday
by the Mission of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), as related
by Mr. Feltman, the rockets were launched from
locations under the control of rebel groups of the self-
proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic. The command
responsibility for these attacks must be investigated and
the perpetrators held responsible and brought to justice.
Like other delegations, we deplore the statement made
by Alexander Zakharchenko shortly before the attack
on Mariupol. The statements constitute a clear violation
of the ceasefire and of the Minsk accords. The attacks
against civilians are a flagrant violation ofinternational
law. International law puts obligations not only on the
parties but also on those within whose capacity it is to
act to prevent any further Violation of international law.

Furthermore, the High Commissioner for Human
Rights warned on Friday of the continued presence
of foreign fighters in eastern Ukraine. According to
reports, in keeping with that of the High Commissioner,
they are troops of the Russian Federation. The same
source confirmed the presence of sophisticated heavy
weaponry in populated areas, under the control of
armed rebel groups, and reported repeated violations
of the human rights of the civilians trapped there and a
lack of the rule of law in those areas.

The Security Council cannot remain silent. It
must make itself heard clearly given this situation.
We call once again for the full implementation of
the Minsk memorandum and protocol, and for the
immediate restoration of the ceasefire. We appeal to
all those in a position to influence those responsible
for their horrendous acts, in particular to Russia, to,
in accordance with its status as a signatory to the
Minsk accords and to the joint Berlin declaration of
21 January, as well as a member of the OSCE trilateral
contact group, and in exercise of its responsibility of the
Security Council, contribute to de-escalate the tensions
and compel the rebel groups to renounce violence and
accept the peaceful and lawful path to pursue their
claims.

The violence and horrific acts of this weekend
sought to derail dialogue and undermine the negotiated
settlement of the crisis provided for in the Minsk
accords. We must not allow this to happen.

