Mrs. Gueguen (France) (spoke inFrench): Iwelcome
Mr. Angelino Alfano, Minister for Foreign Affairs and
International Cooperation of Italy, and congratulate
his country on assuming the chairpersonship of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) this year. Italy can count on our full support in
addressing the priorities of its chairpersonship, which
include conflicts in Europe, particularly Ukraine,
challenges in the Mediterranean, transnational threats
and, above all, respect for human rights - the keystone
of peace and international security.

I would like to focus on two points: the central
role of the OSCE in our efforts to put an end to the
Ukrainian crisis and the other priority challenges on
which we, member States of the Security Council and
the United Nations, must support the OSCE.

The Ukrainian crisis is one of the gravest and
most dangerous violations not only of the founding
principles of the OSCE, established in Helsinki more
than 40 years ago, but also of the principles of the
Charter of the United Nations. The OSCE has been able
to respond appropriately to avoid the escalation of the
conflict. It has acted responsibly by rapidly deploying a
Special Monitoring Mission and by assuming thereafter
a central role in supporting the implementation of the
Minsk agreements, which remain the only possible path
to a peaceful resolution to the conflict.

France is determined, in collaboration with
Germany, to pursue its mediation efforts using the
Normandy format. Each result obtained in this format
and implemented on the ground counts. We saw evidence
of that in December with the exchange of prisoners
between the Ukrainian State and the separatists. Only
progress in this format will support the implementation
of the Minsk agreements by the parties. We count on
the Council to fully support their efforts to that end as
soon as possible.
We remain more convinced than ever that the OSCE,
through its Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine, has
a vital role to play in ensuring the implementation of
political decisions on the ground. In that connection,
the Special Monitoring Mission must be able to fully
exercise its mandate without hindrance. We once again
call for its staff to be granted freedom of movement
and condemn in the strongest terms any violation of
that principle, whether in the form of intimidation,
threats or denial of access to certain areas. The OSCE's
participation in the holding of future local elections in
Donbas will also be necessary, although the modalities
have yet to be determined.

Finally, our general goal remains the restoration
of Ukraine's control over all its territory within
the internationally recognized borders. I recall,
in that regard, that France strongly condemns and
does not recognize the illegal annexation of Crimea
and Sevastopol.

My second point relates generally to the role of
the OSCE in the promotion of peace and security in
Europe. Given the diversity of the threats we face, we
encourage the OSCE's 57 members to abandon their
political postures and to embrace instead the spirit of
Helsinki, which made it possible, over 40 years ago,
to reach a common vision of security in Europe.In that
context, we believe that the work of the OSCE now
needs to focus on the following issues.

The first is the resolution of regional conflicts.
Moving past the Ukrainian case, we cannot be
satisfied with the persistence of stagnant conflicts on
the European continent, be it in Nagorno Karabakh,
Transnistria or the separatist territories of Georgia.
We are convinced that the role of the OSCE is central
in all such cases, both in connection with and within
the framework of the established mediation formats,
in order to promote dialogue and restore confidence
which, as Minister Alfano and Deputy Minister Seder
have stressed, are the key to resolving the conflicts.

Secondly, we must preserve the instruments oftrust
and military transparency on the European continent.
The arms control treaties and confidence-building
measures developed in the OSCE's political-military
dimension are unique and constitute pillars of the
European security architecture. It is essential to
preserve their implementation and relevance, including
by adapting them to modern realities. We are in favour
of continuing discussions within the framework of the
OSCE Structured Dialogue.
Thirdly, the preservation of the human dimension
must remain central to the work of the OSCE, in line
with the wishes of the Italian chairpersonship. This
human dimension is central to the functioning and the
identity of the OSCE. It is also key to finding long-
term solutions to crises. To reject or marginalize that
dimension can only undermine the prospects for peace
and security in Europe. Like the Italian chairpersonship,
we seek to promote the universality and indivisibility
of all fundamental rights.

Finally, the OSCE must develop its operational role
in response to certain emerging regional challenges.
That applies, in particular, to combating human
trafficking, preventing radicalization and addressing
the impact of climate change on security. Doing so is
important for each of these key challenges to security
in Europe. The OSCE must develop concrete responses
that are not merely public statements of position.

I will conclude by recalling the strong convergences
that exist between the actions of the OSCE and those of
the United Nations. Those two organizations share a
common approach that combines security, development
and human rights. It is our duty, in the Council, to
continue to support the efforts of the OSCE in all crises
in which it is called upon to act.

