Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): I should like to make a few brief comments.

First, I was surprised to note that, in the context of
the principal issues, I agree with the statement made by
the representative of the United States. First, he quite
rightly noted that one of the most important principles
of the OSCE is the equality of all members before
international law. We fully agree with that and deem it
unacceptable that there have been statements made on
the right of certain States to determine the fate of the
rest of the world.

Another issue that was rightly noted by the United
States representative and with which we agree is the
danger posed by a return to the principle of spheres of
influence. We are critical of the expansion of NATO
into the east and of how the European Union continues
to formulate its policy of Eastern partnership. Eastern
European States are given the choice to be either with
the West or with the East.

As the Council will recall, the crisis in Ukraine
broke out as a result of the fact that Brussels began
to categorically demand that president Yanukovych
immediately sign the agreement on association with the
European Union. Therefore a return to the policy of the
spheres of influence is extremely undermining in terms
of consequences for European security.

Yet another element on which I fully agree with
the representative of the United States is the continuing
dangerous situation in terms of security between
the Kyiv armed forces and rebel battalions that are
continuing to operate in eastern Ukraine and Donetsk
and Luhansk. What the representative of the United
States did not say, however, and what needs to be said
is that to a large extent this exacerbation is due to the
fact that the Ukrainian armed forces took over a neutral
space and began to defend a security zone there with
heavy weaponry. This runs totally counter to the logic
and the letter of the Minsk agreements, which speak of
the need for the withdrawal of forces. The Ukrainian
forces are coming dangerously close to the armed
groups, which has led to exchanges of fire and attacks.
In this regard, I cannot but express my
disappointment at the statement made by my Ukrainian
colleague, who repeated several propagandistic slogans
with respect to Russia. I am wondering, when is Kyiv
going to implement the clearly defined elements of the
package? Why was a law not adopted last year on the
special status of Donbas? When will it be adopted?
When will the amnesty law be adopted? When will
there finally be an agreement with the Kyiv authorities
and the Luhansk and Donetsk leadership?

Upon the request of Kyiv and the leadership of Russia
in the Normandy format, we convinced representatives
of Donetsk and Luhansk to postpone the local elections
that were supposed to take place at the end of last year,
but prospects for agreement on how the elections will
be held look rather dim. Indeed, there are difficulties in
the context of the Contact Group, so it seems that Kyiv
once again is really drawing out the process.

In this regard, I should like once again to reiterate
the request that our colleagues in the Normandy format
have heard. We need to be very demanding and act as
a matter of principle. When agreements are reached
at a high level, Kyiv must be required to implement
them. I think that when that happens, other issues -
which, as we heard, Mr. Steinmeier stressed during
his recent meeting with Minister Klimkin- the fight
against corruption and economic reforms will move
forward, because in a conflict situation it is probably
too optimistic to expect some sort of progress on such
fronts.

So Kyiv first and foremost should want to see the
implementation of the package of measures, just as
Russia does. It is time to put an end to the crisis, which
would not have begun in the first place had it not been
for this undermining policy of spheres of influence,
which the United States criticized today.

Finally, quite frankly I did not want to digress
from the issue of Ukraine, but the representative of
the United States spoke about Georgia and criticized
Russia and what is required of us. I should like to recall
that the irreversible political changes that took place
in the Caucasus in 2008 happened as a result of the
aggression that Georgian politicians carried out against
southern Ossetia. The United States supported them;
at that time there were more than 100 United States
military advisers in Georgia, so it would be naive to
think that they turned a blind eye to what was happening
or missed it. So let us not engage in propaganda but
concentrate on the ongoing work in the Caucasus and
in Ukraine so as to normalize the situation after those
crises, which were due to various factors, among which
the United States played a rather significant role.

