Mr. Gaspar Martins (Angola): We welcome His
Excellency Mr. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Germany, and thank him for
the very clear and comprehensive briefing delivered
to the Security Council this morning in his role as
Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).

The priorities set for the German
chairmanship - renewing dialogue, rebuilding trust
and restoring security - address fundamental concerns
of international life and our quest for peace and security.
Since its inception, the OSCE's work has been a relevant
factor in that endeavour, and we commend its tangible
contribution to international peace and security, its
upholding of the purposes and principles of the United
Nations and its cooperation under Chapter VIII of the
Charter of the United Nations. During the 40 years of
its existence, the OSCE's agenda has been effectively
aligned with the three pillars of the United Nations, that
is, peace and security, human rights and development.

Angola needs a Europe in peace, marked by
stability and growing economies. We therefore attach
great relevance to the programme set by the German
chairmanship of the OSCE, focused on the fight
against threats such as terrorism, radicalism, drug
trafficking, as well as on countering the abuse of
cyberspace, by addressing youth radicalization through
a comprehensive approach to security and the efforts
that it has been deploying to address today's growing
security challenges. Angola supports and appreciates
the OSCE's outstanding role in that regard.

In addition, the organization's efforts to strengthen
dialogue and cooperation in areas such as arms control
are of relevance, as are initiatives aimed at managing
cross-border movements and the social and political
impact of migration, based on the organization's
commitment to human rights and the promotion of
tolerance and non-discrimination, which are solid
foundations for lasting solutions to the critical problems
affecting the international community. We welcome
the German chairmanship's objective of holding a
conference on those issues later this year in Berlin.

With regard to specific country situations, we praise
the OSCE's active support to the current negotiations
and mechanisms for solving conflicts in Nagorno
Karabakh and to the Transnistria talks on Georgia,
as well as its fundamental role in the stabilization of
Kosovo and in monitoring the Minsk agreement on
eastern Ukraine.

Angola values with great appreciation the contribution
of regional and subregional organizations to the
maintenance of international peace and security. They
play a key role in strengthening the multilateral system
and complement the work of the United Nations through
the specific knowledge of their respective regions,
particularly with regard to the root causes of conflict.

Finally, we would like to stress the importance
of dialogue between the Security Council and the
OSCE, as well as with other international, regional
and subregional organizations, in prevention and crisis
management and tackling issues that are threats to
regional peace and stability in Europe.

Angola wishes the German chairmanship great
success and thanks the Chairperson-in-Office for
coming to New York.

