Ms. Murmokaite (Lithuania): I thank Under-
Secretary-General Feltman for his briefing, and I thank
you, Mr. President, for convening this open meeting
in view of the recent deterioration of the situation in
eastern Ukraine and continuous violations ofthe Minsk
agreements. Both Russia and the Russian-sponsored
illegal militants persist in interpreting the ceasefire in
their own twisted way: Ukraine must cease while the
militants can continue to fire.

I believe that no one in this Chamber has any doubt
that a country under attack would do its utmost to protect
itself. In the face of aggression, it is the inherent right
of each and every State to defend its land and its people.
That is exactly what Ukraine is doing - defending
itself in the face of the ongoing attacks against its
unity, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. Time
and again in recent months, its leadership has sought
to salvage the ceasefire with new proposals, new
deadlines and new periods of silence. The militants,
however, have benefited from Ukraine's restraint by
regrouping, rearming and grabbing more land. Since
the start of the ceasefire, the militants have captured
an extra 550 square kilometres of Ukrainian territory
between Donetsk and Mariupol and, according to their
commanders, have no intention of stopping.

In spite of the many calls of the international
community to close its borders to the illegal flows of
arms and foreign fighters, Russia's borders remain
wide open to the flow of deadly weaponry and
soldiers of fortune. Here is a typical excerpt from the
16 January report of the smm of the Special Monitoring
Mission (SMM) of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE):

"The SMM. saw three unmarked trucks towing
three D-3O 122-mm howitzers on the southern
edge of Donetsk city, travelling west past a
'DPR'-controlled checkpoint. Two unmarked
T-80 battle tanks were seen by the SMM. travelling
south-east in Makiivka The SMM. observed a
convoy of 21 military-style Ural and KAMAZ
trucks, also unmarked, heading south on a highway
near Starobesheve Four of the trucks carried
what appeared to be communication equipment,
while the remaining trucks were covered."

Here is another report. In the weekly update for the
period of 15-21 January, the OSCE observer mission at
Gukovo and Donetsk noted:

"The OM. continued to observe a number ofpersons
in military-style clothing crossing the border in
both directions... During the reporting period,
the Obersvation Teams observed 396 men and
women in military-style dress crossing the border
in both directions... Ninety-three percent of border
crossings occurred at the Donetsk BCP."

The little that can be gleaned from the two
kilometres where the OSCE observer mission is active
is clearly indicative of what is happening away from
the eyes of the observers. It is no wonder that Russia
keeps blocking all attempts to expand the OSCE border
observer mission to cover more ground. The Ukrainian
sources estimate that as of 15 January, the separatists
had 542 tanks, 990 armoured personnel carriers, nearly
700 artillery systems, some 70 Grad rockets and 57 air
defence systems.

How on Earth, but for Russia's continued supply,
could a ragtag bunch of illegal militants obtain such
an impressive arsenal of sophisticated heavy weaponry
and arms, which by now could well rival the arsenals of
the smaller European States? And where on Earth, but
for Russia's continued support, could a ragtag bunch of
militants get the millions needed to buy all that heavy
weaponry and machinery, especially in an area where
the local inhabitants are said to be starving and local
hospitals cannot even buy bread for their patients? So
much for Russia's claims that it is not a party to this
conflict. The war in eastern Ukraine is not a civil war,
as some try to portray it, but a calculated and systematic
attempt to destabilize Ukraine - a foreign-sponsored
war.

Backed by sophisticated weaponry including Grad
rockets, artillery systems, modern tanks, armoured
personnel carriers, and an influx of foreign mercenaries,
the militants continue their barrage of deadly attacks.
The past few weeks in particular have seen a disturbing
increase in ceasefire violations, including a massive
onslaught by the militants on the Donetsk airport.
Yesterday again, intensive fighting was reported in
several locations, including north-west of Luhansk,
where militants destroyed, with massive artillery fire,
and occupied one of the checkpoints of the Ukrainian
military.

Growing evidence points to a systematic use by the
militants of residential areas as a cover for launching
Grad rockets and shelling the Ukrainian forces. Overall,
since the announcement of the ceasefire on 5 September
2014, Ukrainian forces and civilians have been shelled
more than 5,660 times, some 1,500 Ukrainian military
have been killed and wounded, and at least 151 civilians
have been killed. We look forward to the results of a
thorough investigation of the Volnovakha bus attack.
We must ensure that perpetrators of this reprehensible
act, and all the countless acts of violence and gross
violations of human rights, especially around the areas
held by the illegal separatist groups, are brought to
account.

While every defensive move by Ukraine is blasted
by the Russian propaganda as ceasefire violations,
Russia has never even once condemned or disowned the
illegal and lawless separatist militants. On the contrary.
Russia's intentions to rewrite the Minsk agreements in
a way that would legitimize and accept the territorial
gains achieved by the militants speaks to the Kremlin's
wholehearted support for those criminals. Lithuania
rejects all calls to renegotiate the terms ofthe ceasefire.
The agreed parameters of the ceasefire already exist
and must be respected. We urge all sides, in particular
Russia, to engage and fully implement the Minsk
agreements in their entirety and without any further
delay.

IfRussia is genuinely interested in putting an end to
the devastating violence and deaths in eastern Ukraine,
including the deaths of its own nameless soldiers sent
to wage a war against a brotherly nation, it must stop
destabilizing Ukraine, stop military supplies to its
proxies, stop the illegal separatist groups and withdraw
all military equipment. The Ukrainian- Russian State
border must be secured. Continuous monitoring by
the OSCE must be ensured. All hostages and illegally
detained persons must be released, including the
Ukrainian pilot Nadiya Savchenko, who was kidnapped
and is being held illegally in Russia.

International observers, including the United
Nations and OSCE monitoring missions, must be
allowed full and unconditional access throughout
Ukraine's territory, including Crimea. International
monitors' full, unobstructed access to Crimea remains
particularly important in the light of the continuous
deterioration of the situation of the indigenous Tatar
community since the annexation by Russia of the
region.

My delegation firmly supports Ukraine's
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and
will not recognize the illegal annexation of Crimea. We
urge the Minsk signatories to spare no effort in seeking
a peaceful solution to the crisis. We urge Russia in
particular to embrace the fundamental principles
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and put
an end to its destabilizing, expansionist and revanchist
policies in the region, including Ukraine, Moldova
and the South Caucasus, where, contrary, to Russia's
commitments under the 2008 August and September
agreements, it is pursuing the annexation of Georgia's
Abkhaz and Tskhinvali regions under the guise of the
so-called treaties on alliance and strategic partnerships.

