Mr. Quinlan (Australia): I will be extremely brief.
I would like to agree with my Russian colleague on the
importance of answering all questions that need to be
answered in respect of the independent investigation
that is currently under way with regard to Flight MH-l7.
That investigation is independent. It is being undertaken
by an independent body - the Dutch Safety Board.
Participation in that investigation includes two Russian
experts. As we understand it, all the questions that have
been raised are being systematically looked at.

Our Australian experts are, of course, participating
in that investigation, but I, as a member ofthe Australian
Government, do not have access to the nature or detail
of that participation. It is an independent investigation
that has drawn up one preliminary report so far but
which continues. All participating Governments and
other bodies, including the International Civil Aviation
Organization, have been assured that it will be very
proper and very systematic and will answer all the
questions that have been raised.

I therefore agree with my Russian colleague that
such kinds of questions need to be looked at. Our
understanding is that that is being done. But the fact
is that we have an independent investigation. It enjoys
the participation of all those who need to be involved,
including Russian experts, and is being undertaken in
accordance with accepted international guidelines, as
affirmed to us in the briefing by Mr. Feltman that took
place on 19 September (see S/PV.7269).

In terms of what I said in my earlier statement
about the cause of the downing of the aircraft, what I
said was that all the apparent evidence that has been
produced so far, while not conclusive, is consistent
with the initial assessment that that event, that atrocity,
was consistent with a surface-to-air missile from the
areas and in the terms that I mentioned. I did not assert
that that was a definitive conclusion - certainly not
yet - of the independent investigation, which is still
looking to establish what happened rather than who
was responsible.

The prosecutorial investigations that are under way
and that involve hundreds and hundreds of prosecutors
from 13 countries, who are being coordinated by
the Dutch Government, will seek to establish the
culpability and then lay the basis for accountability.
Those countries most directly affected that lost citizens
in that outrage have all indicated consistently their
confidence in both processes that are taking place. I
have said enough but I just wanted to put that firmly on
the record.

