The Russian delegation called for today's emergency meeting of the Security Council with a view to considering the resumed punitive military operations undertaken by the authorities of the Kyiv regime, involving terrorists, the pro-fascist Right Sector and other ultranationalist organizations against their own people in south-eastern Ukraine. A sub-unit of the Ukrainian army is using tanks, other heavy artillery and military helicopters to launch rocket striles against protesters and land troops. The first blood has already been spilled and reports are coming in about the killed and wounded. If the criminal misadventures of the Kyiv clique are not swiftly stopped, a catastrophic outcome for Ukraine cannot be averted. We have warned of this on many occasions.

Punitive measures against its own people bear witness to the current Kyiv Government's inability or unwillingness to fulfil its obligations under the Geneva declaration of 17 April to ensure a speedy end to all violence and the launch of broad national dialogue, with the participation of all regions and political forces.
If anyone entertained any doubts, it is now clear that the many statements of the so-called Government of Ukraine regarding its intention to begin nationwide dialogue in the search of settlement to the far-reaching crisis are nothing but hypocrisy. The regime in Kyiv, having abrogated the agreement of 21 February, is now openly violating its commitments under the Geneva declaration of 17 April, which require an urgent measures to end to all violence.
In essence, at a time when Russia is striving to de-escalate and settle the crisis and - at the request of our Western partners and in cooperation with the leadership of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) - recently sent a representative of the President of the Russian Federation to Donetsk oblast in order to find a solution to the situation of the military specialists from several European countries, the Kyiv regime, with the support of its Western sponsors, has launched the full-scale use of military force, effectively annihilating any prospects for the implementation of the Geneva agreement.

We are particularly concerned about information that, in the course of the punitive operations undertaken by the Ukrainian armed forces and illegal ultranationalist groups, English has been heard being spoken on the radio and English-speaking foreigners have been identified among those attacking in Sloviansk. We insist that all outside interference in the events in Ukraine is unacceptable. It is time for our Western colleagues to think twice, reason with their mentees in Ukraine, and stop toying with the destiny of the Ukrainian people to determine their own geopolitical goals.

How else can we interpret yet another blatant example of the double standards wielded by the United States? Following the numerous attempts of Washington, DC, to tell Russia where and how its military should be properly deployed in its own territory, the White House has now been offended by our appeal to the Kyiv Government to withdraw its forces from eastern Ukraine. I recall that Washington, DC, used frequently to ask former President Yanukovich of Ukraine not to use force against his people, and threatened him with all sorts of consequences. Now, however, in a strange twist of logic, force may and must be used against civilians by a Government that enjoys no legitimacy.

The High Representative of the European Union is not far behind her United States colleagues, philosophizing about the State's monopoly on the use of force. In the current context in Ukraine, her statement can only be characterized as provocative and inflammatory. It would seem that not only did the High Representative not participate in signing the Geneva declaration, but that she did not read it. In helping those who organized the coup d'etat in Kyiv to crush the protesters, the United States and the European Union bear great responsibility for effectively destroying the path to a peaceful solution to the crisis.

Against that backdrop, the categorical refusal of Washington, DC, to support the continuation of dialogue between the representatives of Kyiv and of south-eastern Ukraine, under the auspices ofthe OSCE, would hardly seem coincidental in its contravention of the Geneva declaration fo 17 April. What could be a more striking example than the fact that the United States is bent on the use of force? We call on Kyiv, its enablers and the signers of the Geneva declaration, the United States and the European Union, not to commit a fatal error and to make a sober assessment at all possible consequences of their actions. We call firmly on the West to end its destructive policy concerning Ukraine, and on the self-proclaimed authorities in Kyiv to swiftly halt all punitive operations and other measures against the people, free political prisoners and guarantee full freedom for journalists. That would represent a genuine process of de-escalation.

There is a need for the urgent organization of authentic and equitable political dialogue, with the participation of all regions, to reach mutual agreement on the future of the country, rather than pretend to draft reforms within the small circle of self-styled Government of winners. Those who gave the criminal order to unleash bloodshed will bear full responsibility for whatever happens in Ukraine.

