Let me start by congratulating the Korean delegation on its assumption of the presidency of the Security Council for the month of May. I wish you every success during your tenure, Madam. I would also like to express my delegation's appreciation and gratitude to the outgoing presidency of Nigeria for its wise stewardship of the Council during the month oprril. I would also like to thank Mr. Jeffrey Feltman for his brief but troubling information.

I would like to return to a question that has been already raised: What would a country do if a group of people in one of its towns decided to break away and declare themselves above the country's laws and Constitution, arm themselves illegally and attack local Government, administrative and justice buildings and take hostages and practice enforced disappearances, beatings and killings? If such groups were supported by sponsors from abroad and propped up by massive propaganda campaigns demonizing the people and the Government, and if provocations were expanding into other regions of one's country, would one sit and wait for the country to be decimated, or would one act in the country's interest, protecting its sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity? Ukraine has taken belated and highly cautious actions against those who are determined to carve it up and parcel it out. Like any other State represented in this Chamber, it has the right to protect its unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity by all means necessary.
As far as punitive actions go, let us be frank.
There were more victims on Thursday in Aleppo after a market bombing by barrel bombs: at least 33 people were killed and many more were wounded. That took place a day after a barrel bomb was dropped by a Government aircraft on an elementary school in another part of the city, killing at least 20 other people, including 17 children. Russia has so far not condemned that punitive act by the Al-Assad regime, like countless similar acts by the regime in the course of more then three years of ongoing war in that country.

Today in eastern Ukraine, two Ukrainian helicopters were shot down by mobile air defence systems, killing two military officers and injuring seven others. Another army helicopter was also damaged. Militants used grenade launchers and portable air defence systems.
Peaceful protesters do not use grenade launchers that can shoot down helicopters, or perhaps planes at some time in the future. Peaceful protesters do not take their morning walks armed with heavy weapons and automatic weapons. They do not kidnap and shamelessly parade international observers. Today provocations and instigations are being carried out in yet another city in Ukraine, as our Australian colleague has mentioned, and there have now been deaths in Odessa.

Had the separatists respected and carried out the Geneva statement, had they not taken up arms against their own State in the first place, none of that would be happening. It would not be happening had Russia, the only Power with real influence on the separatists, denounced such acts of aggression and called on the separatists to accept a peaceful path of talks with the central Government. Instead, Russia chose to continue to put the blame on Ukraine, the only side that is actually taking some steps - at gunpoint - to implement the Geneva statement.

In addition to the various initiatives that were referred to a couple ofdays ago during the Council's open briefing (see S/PV.7165) - an amnesty law, a limitation of presidential powers, decentralization - Ukraine's Prime Minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, has now announced that the Government will submit a draft law to the Parliament on a referendum on national unity, territorial integrity and decentralization, to be held on 25 May together with the presidential elections.
He again stressed that decentralization would grant, in certain territories, additional guarantees to the Russian-speaking population, as well as to members of ethnic minorities.

But I guess that people in eastern and southern Ukraine do not really know that such initiatives even exist, because an aggressive propaganda machine has drowned out the voice of Kyiv, with its alternative narrative of Ukraine's demonization. They simply will not be allowed to know that viable alternatives exist to the path of war, because that is not in the plans of those who cannot wait to disrupt the 25 May elections and proceed with Ukraine's dismemberment, under false referendums, the so-called "will of the people" or any sham pretext still in use by pro-Russian militants and their State sponsors. And we must very carefully watch on 11 May, when the self-proclaimed so-called "people's mayor" of Donetsk republic is demanding a new referendum be held. I would not be surprised if another request to join Russia follows after that referendum.

My Government condemns all attempts to destroy Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, and firmly rejects all Russian attempts to validate its intentions and threats to use armed forces or to send Russian Federation peacekeepers into Ukraine's territory.

A couple of days ago, we expressed support for the Secretary-General's initiatives and called for stepping up international mediation efforts. We now welcome the fact that Under-Secretary-General Feltman will be going to the region. We fully stand behind the efforts to de-escalate the situation. We also think, as the representative of Luxembourg has stated, that the international observers who are there to provide unbiased, objective information must be allowed to work across all of Ukraine's territory, in order to help us all better understand what is happening there, but also to help in de-escalating the situation before it becomes much worse.

The international community must mobilize to prevent the crisis from turning into a real bloodbath. For we have seen, time and again, how deadly, horrifying and inhuman the results of incitement and demonizing the other can be. We have seen it in South Sudan, in the Central African Republic and elsewhere. In a tragic twist of irony, in the middle of Europe two sisterly nations, two Slavic Orthodox nations, may start killing each other, both victims of ruthless manipulation through propaganda, orchestrated by the Kremlin. The Geneva statement is the only thing we have on the table now. We should go back to it. We hae to let it work. It is in the interests of all of us.

