Mr. Pavlichenko (Ukraine): I would first like to
say that the independent investigation into the Flight
MH-l7 aircrash is being undertaken by the Netherlands
and competent authorities and that the investigation
includes an international team. My Government is also
participating in that task. It is fully committed to the
work being undertaken within that group.

As for the other allegations voiced by the Russian
delegation, I regret that it continues to use such
unconstructive rhetoric. I just want to reiterate our
main message regarding the accusations levelled at the
Government of Ukraine that our troops committed some
crimes. We take very seriously all credible information
about any crimes committed on the territory of Ukraine.
The Government of Ukraine condemns all crimes,
especially serious crimes in breach of international
law. Any such crimes should be properly investigated.
They will be investigated and those responsible will
be held accountable sooner or later. Ukraine is open
to cooperating with international partners in the
investigation of such crimes.

I hope that that position is quite clear. However, at
the same time, it seems to me that Russia is casting
such unfounded allegations against Ukraine in order to
distract the attention of the international community
from the main issue, which is the Russsian aggression
against Ukraine and its interference into the domestic
affairs of my country. The occupation of Crimea, the
instigation of unrest in eastern Ukraine and the supply
of weapons and manpower for the needs of the separatist
movements in Ukraine are among the main causes of
those dramatic events.

Unfortunately, I have not heard from the Russian
delegation a firm willingness to comply strictly with
the Minsk arrangements, to which it is a party. We have
not heard any expression of Russia's firm intention
to withdraw its troops from Ukraine or its readiness
to cooperate with Ukraine in establishing effective
control over the State border. We have not heard a
condemnation of the serious crimes committed by the
illegal armed groups, crimes that are clearly reflected
in the United Nations Monitoring Mission's report.

We also had expected that Russia would condemn
the intentions of the separatists to hold local elections
on 2 November, an act that would Violate the Minsk
arrangements, signed by Ukraine and Russia. It would
be quite difficult to settle the situation in eastern
Ukraine without addressing that issue, as noted in
our statement today. The leadership of Ukraine has
demonstrated by its deeds its readiness and willingness
to work for a peaceful resolution. It is time for the other
parties to step up and show their sincere will to engage
in dialogue.

