Mr. Nduhungirehe (Rwanda): I would like to
thank Mr. Jens Anders Toyberg-Frandzen, Assistant
Secretary-General Ad Interim for Political Affairs,
Ambassador Ertugrul Apakan, Chief Monitor of
the special monitoring mission to Ukraine of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE), and Ambassador Heidi Tagliavini,
representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office, for
their briefings on the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. I would
also like to recognize the presence in the Chamber of
the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United
Nations.

Since our last briefing, on 24 October (see S/PV.7287), the security situation in Ukraine has
deteriorated further, despite the extensive diplomatic
efforts deployed in the region over the past month.
It seems that when the region takes a step forward,
the parties respond with two steps backwards, at
the expense of the civilian population. We should
remember, as Ambassador Tagliavini has reminded us,
that winter is around the corner and that with increased
fighting, coupled with a shortage of gas in Ukraine, a
humanitarian disaster is looming.

It is disappointing that despite the signing of the
Minsk protocol and memorandum on 5 and 19 September,
respectively, the parties seem unwilling to implement
those agreements. We are seriously concerned about the
continued violation of the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Ukraine, the massive reinforcement of the
armed separatists with heavy weaponry, including via
military convoys, as well as the continued shelling in
populated areas, including, last week, ofa school. In that
context, we commend the OSCE Special Monitoring
Mission for its continuing role in verifying the ceasefire
on Ukraine's eastern border. We note that it is facing
serious challenges, including problems with the safety
of its personnel and a lack of necessary equipment. We
urge all parties, particularly the armed separatists, to
assist the Mission in implementing its mandate, and we
also encourage those who have the capacity to provide
the monitors with the equipment they need to do so, in
order to improve the success of its activities.

It is unfortunate that the deterioration of the
security situation in Ukraine comes on the heels of
the parliamentary elections of 26 October, which were
viewed as free, fair and peaceful, despite the fact that
there were no polling stations in the rebel-held areas.
In that regard, we believe that the subsequent elections
organized on 2 November by the armed separatists are
unconstitutional and undermine the Minsk protocol and
memorandum. In a context of heightened tension and
escalation, we note with concern statements from all sides
that may jeopardize even the provisions of the Minsk
agreements that had begun to be implemented, such as
those on the exchange ofprisoners of war and the law on
interim local self-government. It is therefore imperative
that, given the alarming situation, all the signatories
recommit to implementing the Minsk agreements and
that members of the Trilateral Contact Group use their
influence to end the dangerous escalation. Otherwise,
despite our collective commitment made yesterday on
the occasion of Remembrance Day, the situation could
get out of hand and lead to another full-blown regional
war on the European continent.

I would like to conclude by recalling that, despite
the fact that we all agree that the situation in Ukraine
has become a threat to international peace and security,
the Security Council is still discussing it based on
letters sent by Permanent Representatives in New York
back in February (S/20l4/l36) and April (S/2014/264).
While I am aware of the deep division in the Council on
the substance, as demonstrated by its persistent lack of
any pronouncement on the issue, I believe it is time for
the 15 to at least agree that the Council should remain
seized of the matter under a specific agenda item, "The
situation in Ukraine".

