Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): The Russian Federation is seriously concerned
about the escalation of the situation in Ukraine.
Cities in south-east Ukraine have been subjected
to indiscriminate shelling by heavy weaponry for
countless days, resulting in hundreds of civilian
casualties. We resolutely condemn such actions against
the civilian population. Of course, we sympathize with
all those who have suffered, regardless of which city or
village the tragedy occurred.

Since the beginning of January, the armed forces
of Ukraine have fired virtually non-stop on the largest
city in Dombas - Donetsk. Just over the past week,
at least 27 civilians have died and 71 people have
been injured, and 105 residences and 3 hospitals, as
well as 2 kindergartens and 3 schools, have also been
destroyed. Overall, 2,367 residential buildings have
been destroyed. There has also been intensive shelling
against Horlivka - something that the Western media
seem not to refer to. That is also something not raised
here in the Chamber by either our Western colleagues
or by the representatives of the Kyiv authorities. The
last week was the most difficult for Horlivka since
last summer: 107 people died, including 9 children.
Three hundred and seventeen people have been injured.
Hospitals, 15 schools and dozens of preschools have
been damaged. On 21 January approximately 10
civilians died as a result of the shelling of the city of
Stakhanov, Luhansk oblast, using Uragan multiple
rocket launcher systems. On 21 January approximately
10 civilians died.

That is far from a comprehensive list of all the
cities under the control of self-defence formations in
which civilians are dying every day. Yet the news cycles
over the past few days have focused on two incidents
alone: the shelling of a bus in Volnovakha and that of a
residential neighbourhood in Mariupol. It is quite clear
why: both cities are controlled by Kyiv's forces. A similar
tragedy in Donetsk in which a bus stop was shelled did
not lead to mourning in Kyiv or to the convening of
emergency meetings of the Security Council. It was not
even worthy of a statement by the Secretary-General. Is
it that in the areas and cities controlled by the Donetsk
and Luhansk People's Republics we have second class
citizens?

It is impossible not to look at the fact that Kyiv has
used the tragedies of recent days to fan the flames of
hysteria. Accusations against self-defence formations
are voiced immediately after events occur - almost
as if they have been prepared in advance. Calls
immediately emanate from Kyiv to Western capitals
for financial and military assistance and for exerting
pressure on the Russian Federation. However, as soon
as the propaganda value ends, interest falls away very
quickly in using the situation further and continuing
investigation - all the more so given that, once some
time has passed, one finds that the facts sometimes fall
quite short of what was said initially. That is why we
call for objective investigation of the January tragedies
in Volnovakha, Donetsk and Mariupol, as well as
earlier tragedies, including in the Maidan, Odesa and
Mariupol.

On Saturday, the members of the Security Council
were not able to agree on a statement to the press with
regard to the tragedy in Mariupol. The need to issue a
statement was as evident to us as it was in the cases of
Volnovakha and Donetsk, and we were ready to back
a similar text. Why has it not been possible this time?
The answer is simple: the delegations of the United
States, the United Kingdom and Lithuania insisted on
including in the text condemnation of one statement
by the leader of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's
Republic, taken out of context of recent events and the
entire crisis in Ukraine. That is something that has
been pushed here at this meeting as well. But what is
the full picture of what has taken place?

First, the leaders of the self-defence formations
made different statements the day before yesterday.
One cannot cite them selectively or take them out of
context. Secondly, we have never heard anything
from our Western colleagues in condemnation of the
leaders of Ukraine, who have no shame when it comes
to their statements and actions. There are threats
that Dombas is going to be punched in the mouth,
that it will be taken back by force and that it will be
Ukrainized - and that the population has to prepare for
"a major continental war", to which there is allegedly
no alternative. Almost a week ago, no one other than
Ukrainian President Poroshenko publicly declared the
resumption of military activities. That took place just
a few days after the meeting in Berlin of the Ministers
for Foreign Affairs of Germany, Russia, Ukraine and
France, at which they backed the idea of a speedy
beginning to the withdrawal of heavy weapons from the
line of contact as set out in the Minsk memorandum of
19 September 2014.

We should also remind our colleagues that Russian
Security Council draft documents on very important
issues - putting an end to the blood-letting, the
humanitarian situation in Dombas - were repeatedly
unsuccessful. Take, for instance, a press statement
in support of the Minsk agreements blocked by
Lithuania and the United States of America, which
was immediately submitted after they were made
public, on 22 September. Following the shelling of a
public transport stop in Donetsk, which was clearly
carried out by Ukrainian forces, for a day we had to
swat away unconstructive amendments by a number of
delegations. It was by exerting pressure that we were
able to agree to a text at the end of the day. In the case of
Volnovakha, we agreed with the text that was proposed
by the sponsors within one minute.

What is unfortunate is that throughout this entire
conflict our Western colleagues have spent all their
time accusing the self-defence formations of inhuman
crimes, while they fully justify the actions of the Kyiv
authorities. We have seen no constructive attempts
to discuss the real reasons for the Ukrainian internal
conflict and try to find a way out of the current
situation. The escalation of the situation in Dombas
was the result of the Kyiv authorities consistently
rejecting direct dialogue with Donetsk and Luhansk on
the issue of the practical implementation of the Minsk
agreements. During all of last September, we noticed
the steps taken by the Kyiv forces to strengthen their
military positions in the south-east. They deployed
forces, equipment and heavy weaponry along the line
of contact, as well as calling for new mobilizations and
putting in new factory orders for defence equipment.

Measures for the economic reconstruction of
Dombas were replaced by attempts to suppress the
regions beyond their control. First they stopped paying
pensions and social benefits, and then imposed a
blockade on humanitarian assistance. All the while,
Kyiv was preparing for war - something they did not
hide in any way. History knows no "if". But everything
could have been quite different if the Minsk ceasefire
memorandum had been implemented in a timely
manner, including the handing over of heavy weaponry
and handing over the Donetsk airport to the self-defence
formations. We would have avoided a new cycle of
confrontation had the Ukrainian authorities accepted
the 15 January proposal of Russian President Vladimir
Putin on the immediate withdrawal of heavy weaponry.
It is quite clear that peace in Dombas is something that
is undesirable to the "war party" in Kyiv.

The Kyiv authorities have been sabotaging the
holding of a regular meeting of the contact group in
Minsk, unjustifiably conditioning it on high-level
representation by the self-defence formations. The main
thing now is to hold this meeting and not to quibble
over the level of the participants. We are trying, as far
as possible, to identify contacts for the meeting over the
next few days. We will continue to prompt the parties
towards direct dialogue, as we have done during the
whole course of the internal Ukrainian crisis.

In that respect, we urge the representatives of States
that possess some form of influence with Ukraine's
leadership, especially Washington, DC, to stop egging
on the Ukrainian hawks, covering and justifying their
inhumane actions, and pushing them towards a military
solution to the conflict. That will only lead to an even
greater catastrophe and create another hotbed of tension
in Europe.

All responsible members of the international
community must strive to attain from Kyiv not words
but actions in the interest of launching a full-fledged
political settlement process. Until the Kyiv party of
war understands that force alone cannot resolve the
conflict, and that multiple-launch rocket systems,
tactical ballistic missiles, phosphorous and cluster
munitions, and renewed mobilizations will not help it,
such incidents will occur over and over again. The Kyiv
authorities must be forced to sit down at negotiation
table with the self-defence formations.

It is important that everyone understand that real
results can be achieved only through direct dialogue
between Kyiv and Donetsk and Luhansk, which the
Ukrainian authorities have shirked thus far, having
chosen a course of suppressing south-eastern Ukraine
by military means. Without inclusive, direct political
dialogue, which should allow us to properly negotiate
the parameters for constitutional reform as required by
the Geneva communique and the Minsk agreements,
the national reconciliation of Ukraine and a sustainable
settlement in the south-east will not occur.

