Ms. Power (United States ofAmerica): I thank you,
Mr. President, for convening today's meeting on the
ongoing crisis in Ukraine. We are grateful for Under-
Secretary-General Feltman's unflagging attention to
this alarming situation and for the alarm he sounded in
the Security Council today in very explicit terms.

As this is the Council's first meeting on Ukraine
in 2015, it is our twenty-eighth meeting on the crisis in
the past 11 months, far more than on any other situation
during the same period. We keep meeting on Ukraine
because, despite countless commitments made to the
international community to de-escalate - here in the
Council and in Geneva, Minsk, Berlin, Normandy
and elsewhere - Russia continues to choose a path of
escalation and obfuscation. In addition to occupying
Crimea, Russia continues to train, equip and fight
alongside separatists in eastern Ukraine. Indeed, Russia
has so consistently broken its commitments and violated
its obligations not to lop off part of another country
that some in the Council may begin to accept Russia's
behaviour as an unfortunate but inevitable reality, a
new normal that would be dangerous for Ukraine and
dangerous for international peace and security, because
complacency would reward aggression and threaten the
basic rules on which our collective security rests.

The current situation is dangerous. It is dangerous
because Russia continues to train and equip separatists
with heavy weapons and to fight by their side, in flagrant
violation of the September Minsk agreement, Ukrainian
sovereignty and international law. Even as we sit here
today, the separatists trained, supplied and supported by

Russia are launching a full-scale attack on the strategic
city of Debaltseve, inside Ukrainian-controlled
territory, in blatant violation of the 19 September
Minsk ceasefire lines, in an attemp to gain control
of a significant rail juncture. The Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) reported
yesterday that at least 30 Grad rockets had hit the city
on 19 January, killing 3 civilians and wounding 12. The
OSCE confirmed that those rockets had come from the
direction of the separatist-controlled city of Horlivka.
Yesterday, independent media reported that separatists
had blown up a rail bridge connecting the port city of
Mariupol to the rest of Ukraine. Thankfully, there were
no casualties, but now the city must rely on northern
access via Donetsk, effectively isolating it and leaving
it vulnerable to separatist attacks.

These moves appear calculated and strategic in
nature. Since President Poroshenko announced the
unilateral silence regime on 9 December, which brought
about a brief respite from the violence, separatists and
the Russians who backed them have carried out more
than 1,000 attacks against Ukrainian positions. Since
late December Russia has transferred at least 100
additional pieces of Russian military equipment and
materiel to separatists. These latest transfers come atop
previous transfers of hundreds of pieces of Russian
military equipment to separatists since September,
including tanks, armoured personnel carriers, heavy
artillery pieces and other military vehicles.

The OSCE is allowed to operate at only two
checkpoints on the vast Ukrainian-Russian border.
Yet from those two checkpoints alone, monitors note
hundreds of individuals in military-style dress freely
crossing the border every week. The separatists have
a larger fighting force, with more weaponry than some
European countries. Meanwhile, Russia is reportedly
preparing to deliver its twelfth resupply convoy to
separatists in Ukrainian territory at the end of the
month. If the past 11 deliveries are any indication,
Russia will deny international monitors or Ukrainian
authorities the ability to fully inspect the convoys. If
Russia is indeed sending humanitarian aid, what does
it have to hide?

The current situation is dangerous. It is dangerous
because separatists continue to harass, threaten
and intimidate the impartial monitors deployed by
the OSCE, - monitors who serve on behalf of the
international community. According to a 14 January
OSCE Special Monitoring Mission (SMM) to Ukraine
report, the SMM. was stopped at a separatist checkpoint
in Oktyabr by a hostile separatist commander who
ordered the team's car searched and said the monitors
would be shot if a camera was found, even though
cameras are a basic tool of documentation work.
Separatist guards kept their guns pointed at the monitors
during the exchange, the monitors said, even though the
team posed no threat and, mercifully, had no camera.

The current situation is dangerous. It is dangerous
because Russia continues to break commitments it has
made to the escalades. Ukraine and the international
community have launched several serious efforts to seek
a peaceful resolution to the conflict, including through
the trilateral contact Group on Ukraine, the Minsk
agreement, the Normandy group and other negotiating
forums. We continue to believe that there can be no
military solution and that political negotiations are key.
Yet, time and again, Russia's words promise peace while
Russia's actions make war. Time and again, President
Putin has extended an olive branch in one hand while
passing out Grad missiles and tanks with the other.

The current situation is dangerous. It is dangerous
because Russia's actions are directly contributing to
a humanitarian crisis. With each passing day, more
civilians are killed and maimed. Many of us have
seen the ghastly images of the 13 January attack on
a passenger bus, which was struck while waiting at a
Ukrainian security checkpoint at Volnovakha. Indelible
images of the blood-soaked snow alongside the bus,
of its blown-out windows and the gapping holes left
in its seats and curtains, of the gory steps to the back
entrance of the bus - these images are unforgettable.
Thirteen civilians were killed in that attack and at least
16 more people were wounded.

The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission said in a
17 January report that it had

"conducted a comprehensive inspection, focusing
on five craters caused by explosions that had
occurred during the incident. The investigation
included comprehensive crater analysis of two
specific blast craters, including the crater located
10 metres from the side of the passenger bus. In
the SMM's assessment, all craters examined were
caused by rockets fired from a north-north-eastern
direction."

The conclusion of the impartial OSCE monitoring
mission is that the craters at the crime scene were
caused by rockets fired from the north-north-east
direction from the checkpoint. That area is controlled
by Russian-backed separatists, and multiple open-
source reports have shown separatists firing Grad
rockets from the territory to the north-north-east of
Volnovakha. The same day the bus was struck, the SMM
reported hearing Grad rockets fired from several other
separatist-controlled areas. At first, separatists bragged
on social media about the strike on the Ukrainian
security checkpoint. Vut the postings disappeared after
it was reported that a busload of civilians had been hit.

For every attack on civilians that makes headlines,
there are dozens more, no less deadly, that go unreported.
Since the conflict began, more than 10,000 people have
been injured in the conflict. Nearly 5,000 people have
been killed, approximately 800 of them since November
when the Council last met to discuss the Ukraine
crisis (see S/PV.7311). One of the attacks that did not
make news occurred on 11 January. According to the
SMM, mortars struck two houses in the Government-
held town of Hranitne, wounding a girl. She died of
her injuries before she reached the hospital - she was
three years old.

Those are some of the reasons why the Russians'
most recent efforts to blame Ukraine ring so hollow.
On Thursday, President Putin issued a last-minute
invitation to President Poroshenko to discuss a new
Russian-conceived so-called peace plan - a plan that
would free Russia from the commitment it made in
Minsk to withdraw its fighters and return control over
the international border to Ukraine. The plan would seek
to legitimize territorial gains made by separatists since
September, as well as Russian personnel and military
equipment on the territory of Ukraine. We have seen
peace plans like that before in Abkhazia, South Ossetia
and Transnistria. When President Poroshenko did not
accept Putin's offer, Russia immediately launched a
diplomatic and media blitz, claiming it was proof that
Ukraine was not interested in peace. Let us pull the veil
away from Putin's peace plan and call it for what it is: a
Russian occupation plan.

We need to implement the peace plans we already
have - peace plans Russia has signed and broken.
If Russia is serious about peace, it should follow
through on Minsk, to which it had agreed more than
four months ago. If Russia wants to end the conflict,
the steps they must take are the same as they were on
5 September 2014: remove all military equipment and
personnel from Ukraine; stop backing the separatists;
allow unimpeded OSCE monitoring; return control
of Ukraine's international border to the Ukrainian
Government and release all hostages, including those
being held in Russia, such as Ukrainian pilot Nadiya
Savchenko. We understand Ms. Savchenko has been on
hunger strike for nearly a month to protest her detention
and is suffering serious health problems. Yet Russia has
taken none of the steps set out in Minsk.

In contrast to Russia, Ukraine has consistently
taken steps to de-escalate the crisis, demonstrating
measurable progress on several key commitments made
in Minsk and passing key reforms to reduce corruption
and grant greater authority to its regions. In September
and December, President Mr. Poroshenko announced
unilateral ceasefires on the part of Ukrainian forces,
resulting in brief but significant decreases in violence.
Yet peace cannot be made unilaterally. Where Ukraine
has been forced to respond to cynical attempts by the
separatists and Russian forces to use the ceasefires to
gain additional territory, the Ukrainian forces have
tried to hold the agreed line.

Of course, the Ukrainian Government must abide
by international norms, even as it defends its land
and its people. We are concerned by the European
Council's report on abuse in Ukrainian prisons, and we
urge the Government to conduct thorough, impartial
investigations into its findings, as well as to develop a
plan to address them. We take seriously reports of the
alleged use of cluster munitions in populated areas. All
sides should take every feasible precaution to prevent
any loss of civilian life, including by indiscriminate
shelling of civilian areas.

There is a broader reason it would be dangerous to
accept Russia's actions as the new normal. We have seen
this playbook before. Before eastern Ukraine we saw it
in Crimea, and before Crimea we saw it in the Georgian
regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and before that
in Georgia and Transnistria. The end-game in all ofthose
Moscow-manufactured crises has been identical: to
gobble up parts of neighbouring countries and to create
frozen conflicts. And Russia is consistently working
to put those frozen conflicts under a deeper freeze. In
recent weeks, for example, at the same time that Russia
was flouting its Minsk agreements, President Putin
was putting the finishing touches on another set of
agreements, the so-called "treaties of alliance", with de
facto authorities in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Those
treaties will compound years of violations of Georgia's
sovereignty and territorial integrity.

What is frozen in these conflicts? Instability
is frozen. Violations of sovereignty are frozen.
Militarization is frozen. In sum, all of the problems
that the United Nations, and the Security Council in
particular, were created to address, are frozen. If
Russia succeeds in achieving its aims, if we allow this
behaviour to become the new normal, this will not be
the last time Russia uses this well-worn playbook.

