The President (spoke in Spanish): I will now make
a statement in my capacity as representative of Chile.

We thank Mr. Jeffrey Feltman, Under-Secretary-
General for Political Affairs, for his briefing.

I would first like to say how deeply concerned we
are about the new escalation of the crisis in eastern
and southern Ukraine, particularly around the Donetsk
airport. We deplore the worsening security situation,
which has had serious consequences for the civilian
population, who continue to suffer violations and
abuses of human rights inflicted by all sides.

We urge the parties to comply fully with the
ceasefire, as monitored and verified by the Special
Monitoring Mission of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe, pursuant to the provisions
of the Minsk accords. We are confident in the full
ability of all the parties to implement the agreement,
which is an inclusive political instrument designed to
achieve peace and tranquillity for the entire population
of eastern Ukraine. We urge all the parties to pursue the
high-level dialogue in order to find a peaceful solution
to the conflict and to exercise restraint and refrain from
unilateral actions that could exacerbate tensions. We
hope that the Minsk contact group can deliver positive
results in the coming weeks.

Until a permanent peaceful solution is found,
humanitarian assistance should be provided without
delay and in accordance with humanitarian principles.
The efforts of the international community must be
channeled through the host Government, which has
primary responsibility for aiding and protecting its
people.

We emphasize the continued importance of
strengthening the rule of law and the obligation to
respect Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and
territorial integrity, in accordance with the Charter
of the United Nations, General Assembly resolution
68/262 and international law, as well as respecting the
principle of non-intervention and non-interference in
the internal affairs of another State.

Lastly, we reiterate our support for the Secretary-
General's continued efforts to end the situation that
Ukraine is enduring, and we hope that the various
independent international mechanisms will continue to
contribute to resolving this crisis.

I now resume my functions as President of the
Security Council.

I give the floor to the representative of Ukraine.
