Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): I would like to make a number of substantive
comments. However, by way of introduction, 1 would
like to again revisit the topic of what took place in
Mariupol and the fact that the Security Council was not
in a position to condemn or speak to that tragedy.

A number of my colleagues have referred to
this, including my Ukrainian colleague. Even when
compared to his usual standards, he has really misstated
the position of the Russian Federation. First, we always
condemn all attacks on all civilians, and we mourn the
deaths of all civilians. This is quite different from the
authorities in Kyiv, who say they mourn the deaths of
civilians but clearly indicate which civilians and from
which regions. The fact that hundreds of individuals
are dying from Ukrainian rockets and snipers does
not interest them. They continue to View Donbas as
Ukrainian territory. If one does not consider it to be
Ukrainian territory anymore, one should just say so
clearly. That would simplify things.

Secondly, we always condemn the deaths of
innocent people, and we stood ready to do so in the case
of Mariupol as well. The fact that we were not able to
do so was the result of the sloppy diplomacy conducted
by a number of our colleagues using methods they have
resorted to in the past with respect to the Ukrainian
crisis, when they have come up with wording that
is quite clearly unacceptable to one member of the
Security Council. Have they ever condemned the
inhumane statements that we hear from the authorities
in Kyiv? Not once. Why is it that they all fixate on the
statements of one leader of the self-defence formations
and insist that we have to condemn them? It is quite clear
that we are not acting fairly here, because a statement
condemning what happened in Mariupol would have
been adopted injust a few minutes, just as we adopted a
statement condemning what took place in Volnovakha,
which we immediately agreed to.

Thirdly, we have always been in favour of objective
investigations in such cases. Of course, one does not
want to bring to the Security Council the work of
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) Special Monitoring Mission. In this
case, however, it seems to us that the members of the
Monitoring Mission did not act appropriately. The
members of the Mission, which included individuals
from the United States, took a look the site of the
tragedy in a very cursory way and then immediately
came up with a statement. That runs counter to the
traditional and agreed methods of work of the OSCE.
Again, in this situation we see a case in which tragic
events have clearly been exploited for political ends.

Allow me to now move on to the more substantive
part of our discussion. Regrettably, our meeting here
today reminds us of a great many previous meetings,
although the focus is perhaps a little different than
before. Many colleagues today have focused on the
statements made by the self-proclaimed Donetsk
People's Republic. I remind Council members that
Donbas has been shelled for months by Ukrainian
rockets and artillery. Therefore, it is quite clear that we
cannot expect conciliatory statements from the leaders
of the Donetsk People's Republic. They have been
trying for month to push the rockets and artillery of the
Ukrainian forces back far enough so that they could not
threaten Donetsk and Luhansk. That, too, is a goal of
the Minsk agreements and underscores the importance
of implementing them.

We have received much information here today, but
we need to look at the roots of the problem. We need to
understand what is meant by the thesis that the conflict
in eastern Ukraine cannot be resolved by military
means. We referred to this in the Security Council
during the early phase of the conflict. Ukrainian tanks
cannot simply move into Donbas. Unfortunately, that
was part of the Poroshenko peace plan, which, in
essence, demanded the capitulation of the self-defence
formations. That was the first step towards escalating
the conflict into a catastrophe. That is unacceptable, but
unfortunately we have recently seen it being pushed by
certain members of the Security Council. Some Council
members today have said that the insurgents and Russia
need to do this, that and the other, and then we could
begin the political settlement. That is the entirely
wrong approach. Serious political efforts need to be
undertaken right now. Direct dialogue between Kyiv
and the east need to be set up. It is necessary to put an
end to the game of hide-and-seek with the Constitution,
which needs to be discussed at a all-Ukraine level.

Today, Mr. Feltman said that Mr. Poroshenko had
agreed to a return to the Geneva format. Frankly, I am
not familiar with the fact that Russia had agreed to a
change in the format, but as far as I know Moscow is
very flexible when it comes to the format. We stand
ready to work in any format that would have a chance
of yielding genuine progress in favour of a settlement.
I wish to underscore, however, no discussion regarding
one format or another should serve as a pretext to
move away from direct dialogue between Kyiv and the
representatives of the regions, first and foremost the
east.

