Mr. Omaish (Jordan) (spoke in Arabic): I, too,
would like to thank the briefers for their presentations
this afternoon.

Jordan is extremely concerned by the worsening
security situation and the increase in shelling in eastern
Ukraine, which follows a period of tenuous calm in the
region. We now fear a resumption of full-scale fighting.
If the situation is not brought under control, there could
be spillover effects beyond Ukraine and into the entire
region.

Jordan believes that the military build-up and the
illegal flow of weapons into Ukraine, as stated in the
report of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe, are violations of the Minsk agreements.
Any attempt by the parties to resume the fighting
flouts international efforts aimed at reaching a lasting
and peaceful solution to the conflict. We reiterate
our call to all parties, in particular armed groups, to
show restraint and discipline, calm the situation and
make intensive, serious and sincere efforts to prevent a
further worsening of the situation, which would be dire
for all concerned.

Any deferral of a political solution based on the
peace agreements will only further exacerbate violence
and instability and bring about a worsening of the
humanitarian situation, which must be addressed. Any
delay will only further prolong the ongoing investigation
of the Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-l7 crash. The
shared challenges have to be tackled by all Ukrainians
across the board, be they in the east or the west of the
country. I am referring to the political reforms, national
reconciliation and economic development. Those shared
challenges and can be tackled only through cooperation
among all the parties so as to ensure that the conflict
not worsen irreversibly.

In that regard, the holding of legislative elections
in the country on 26 October was an important step
on the path to political reform, which the Ukrainian
Government has committed itself to. We therefore
encourage the Government to continue its efforts to
step up the national dialogue and to put in place all
the necessary political and economic reforms that can
contribute to the national reconciliation process among
all members of Ukrainian society.

Jordan will continue to back the Minsk agreements.
We stress the importance of cooperation among all
parties for a comprehensive and swift implementation
of all the provisions of the agreements, including
provisions regarding the ceasefire and the halting of
weapons flows. We emphasize the need to uphold and
maintain the territorial integrity and sovereignty of
Ukraine, as undermining those would be a violation of
international law.

We also recall that it is crucial that there be no
impunity or immunity for those having perpetrated
violations or acts of violence. We further recall that such
individuals must be brought before justice to ensure
that the situation in Ukraine not further deteriorate.

