Sir Mark Lyall Grant (United Kingdom): I would
like to thank Mr. Feltman for his briefing this afternoon.

This weekend, we saw the biggest single loss
of civilian life in the Ukrainian crisis since the
commitments made at Minsk on 5 September last year.
Thirty civilians were killed and over 100 wounded
following what the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) termed "an extremely
heavy barrage" of rockets fired indiscriminately into
the crowded streets of Mariupol.

Only three days earlier, the Council had met to raise
our serious concerns at the escalation in fighting along
the agreed ceasefire line (see S/PV.7365). All of us
called for de-escalation and a resumption of dialogue.
That attack, many kilometres over the agreed ceasefire
line, has taken the scope and threat of the conflict
to a substantially new level. The attack was just not
another refusal of the separatist leadership to abide by
the commitments made at Minsk; it was a provocative
and reckless escalation that, as the Secretary-General
has made clear, could constitute a violation of
international humanitarian law. Those responsible for
the attack must be held accountable for their actions.
It is deeply regrettable that the Council failed to agree
on a press statement that would have condemned
the announcement of a separatist offensive against
Mariupol and the subsequent attack on Mariupol.

No one in the Council can deny the fact that the
attack on Mariupol, like last week's on a bus near
Volnovakha, came from the Russian-backed separatists.
The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission analysis of
both attacks indicates clearly that in both incidents the
rockets were fired from separatist-held territory. The
attack would not have been possible without the military
support of Russia and its supply of multiple-launch
Grad and Uragan rocket systems to the separatists.
In the past few weeks, Russia has transferred to the
separatists hundreds of additional heavy weapons, not
just rocket systems but also heavy artillery, tanks and
armoured vehicles. Hundreds of Russian regular forces
and special forces continue to operate on Ukrainian
territory, in clear violation of Ukraine's sovereignty
and territorial integrity. These soldiers are backed by
Russian command-and-control elements, air defence
systems, drones and electronic warfare systems.

There is no doubt that the flow of heavy weapons
across those borders, in violation of the territorial
integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, has given the
separatists the fire power and the confidence to escalate
the conflict. Since the Minsk agreement in September,
which included an immediate ceasefire, the separatists
have taken control of an additional 550 square
kilometres of territory. Despite the commitments made
at Minsk to securing continuous monitoring of the
border with verification from the OSCE, hundreds of
kilometres of border remain free for the flow of these
deadly weapons, often under the guise of humanitarian
convoys. Russia's persistent blocking of the proposed
expansion of the OSCE border monitoring reveals its
true intentions.

Russia arms the separatists, it finances them, it
advises them, and it fights covertly alongside them.
What it has not managed to do is to get its separatist
proxies to stick to Russia's deceitful narrative. The self-
proclaimed leader of the Donetsk People's Republic,
Alexander Zakharchenko, proudly announced on
24 January that "Today an offensive was launched on
Mariupol. This will be the best possible monument
to all of our dead". That statement, and others like it,
cannot be glibly ignored, as the Russian representative
encourages us to do. It is the reality. While Russia
professes adherence to the Minsk agreement and the
Normandy format meetings, and while it accuses the
Ukrainian Government of provocations, the separatist
forces that it supports are bent on undermining those
agreements, attacking civilians and creating new
realities on the ground. That approach, as we have seen
in Mariupol this weekend, will only lead us closer to the
precipice. It will lead to more deaths, more destruction
and more people displaced from their homes.

On each occasion that the Council has met to
discuss Ukraine, the vast majority of its members have
underlined their commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty,
unity and territorial integrity. We assert quite rightly
that these are fundamental principles of the Charter
of the United Nations. They provide the foundation
for an international system that is based on rules and
respect and the preservation of international peace and
security. We all defend these principles because we do
not want a world where borders are redrawn by force,
where States are threatened and destabilized by their
neighbours, and where innocent civilian populations
live in fear of battle orders issued in far-off capitals.

The Security Council has to make very clear where
it stands against the profoundly dangerous path that
Russia is pursuing in east Ukraine. That is why I urge
all Council members to be clear in their messaging
today. Russia must withdraw its equipment and troops.
It must cease its support for the separatists, and it must
effectively control its borders. It must use its influence
over the separatists to stabilize the situation and prevent
further dangerous escalation. It must play its full part
in ensuring the immediate implementation of the Minsk
protocol. Once again today, the representative of the
Russian Federation has claimed that his country wants
a peaceful resolution to the conflict, but such words
are worthless in themselves. We need to see Russian
actions to put a stop to this widening and increasingly
deadly conflict.

