Mr. McLay (New Zealand): We thank you,
Mr. President, for convening this debate, and all the
more so because of the failure of the Security Council
over the weekend to agree to a simple and clear press
statement that would have condemned the events in
Mariupol. I also thank the Under-Secretary-General for
his briefing, which has been very helpful to the Council.

New Zealand condemns the killing of approximately
30 people and the injuring of more than 90 civilians on
24 January in Mariupol. The reports of indiscriminate
shelling of civilian populations and residential areas are
deeply concerning, as indeed are the other incidents that
were outlined by Under-Secretary-General Feltman.
We voiced our concerns last week that the violence was
escalating at an alarming rate. The Mariupol incident
confirms that the situation in eastern Ukraine is now
on a disastrous downward spiral. We do not take this
incident in isolation. Its occurrence, magnitude and
the claims made about it by the separatist leadership
speak for themselves. It was a major assault on a
civilian population with the sole purpose of taking and
controlling the area as a result.

The most recent civilian casualties from the conflict
in eastern Ukraine are completely unacceptable. We
call on all sides to respect international humanitarian
law and to refrain from any indiscriminate attacks. In
that regard, we note that rockets have been launched
indiscriminately into civilian areas - a violation
of international humanitarian law. There can be no
impunity for such reckless acts. Those responsible must
be held accountable for their actions.

Russia's provision of troops and materiel to
'6

the separatists is irresponsible. The threat of a
major Ukrainian war" is both chilling and wholly
inappropriate, and it may now be close to a reality.

Against the mounting body of evidence, Russia
is unapologetic for the role it is playing in supporting
the separatists. Russia speaks about the facts. What we
know for a fact is that Russia is playing a role in this
conflict.

We support the promotion of a fully inclusive
political dialogue. We call on Russia, instead of
blaming others, to use the diplomatic and other tools
it has available to ensure that the separatists respect a
ceasefire. That ceasefire, as already agreed on in the
Minsk accords, must be implemented immediately.
The Council must also live up to its responsibilities
under the Charter of the United Nations. We must put
politics aside, difficult although that may be, and use
our collective influence to stop the killing of civilians
in eastern Ukraine. That must be the priority. Although
this is perhaps not for today's meeting, in future we
would like to see the Council seriously consider how it
can put pressure on all the belligerents to implement the
ceasefire. Words may no longer be enough; more action
may still be required.

