Mr. Allen (United Kingdom): I thank Foreign
Minister Alfano for his briefing. The United Kingdom
fully supports the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and its efforts to
achieve stability, peace and democracy for the people
of Europe, including through dialogue. Like the United
Nations, the OSCE is a pillar of the international rules-
based system, and respect for its fundamental principles

must be restored.

Nowhere in Europe is that more important than in
Ukraine. I would like reaffirm the United Kingdom's
full support for Ukraine's independence, sovereignty
and territorial integrity, including in Crimea. Those
are words with which we open so many Security
Council resolutions. They are fundamental to all
States Members of the United Nations. Yet last month,
we marked the fourth anniversary of Russia's illegal
annexation of Crimea. That act, by a permanent
member of the Council, showed complete disregard
for the Charter of the United Nations and trampled
on international law. In addition to annexing Crimea,
Russia has destabilized eastern Ukraine and continues
to fuel the conflict, at enormous human and material
cost to the Ukrainian people.

As always, it is the civilians who suffer most.
Since the conflict began, more than 10,300 people have
lost their lives, almost 25,000 have been injured and
3.4 million are in need of humanitarian assistance,
particularly along the line of contact. We have
seen reports that more than 1,000 Russian military
personnel and mercenaries have lost their lives, so
the Russian people are also mourning their children.
Only by means of a truly sustainable ceasefire and
genuine political will, through the implementation of
the Minsk agreements, can the conflict be brought to
an end. We welcome the most recent recommitment to
the ceasefire by the Trilateral Contact Group. However,
past ceasefires have been broken and have not resulted
in sustained improvements to the security situation.

While the conflict continues, the OSCE Special
Monitoring Mission to Ukraine, ably directed by
Chief Monitor Apakan, must be permitted to carry
out its mandate in full and granted complete, safe and
unhindered access to all Ukraine, including Crimea
and the parts of the border with Russia that are not
under Ukraine's control. The increasingly aggressive
behaviour and threats that we seeing directed at the
OSCE monitors are deeply worrying, and we have not
forgotten the sacrifice of paramedic Joseph Stone on
23 April last year. If, as Russia claims, it truly cares
about the people of the Donbas region, it should end the
fighting that it started, withdraw its military personnel
and weapons and cease its support for the separatists.
Russia should also show a genuine political will to end
the conflict and abide by the Minsk agreements that it
signed. Until those steps are taken, we will work with
our European Union partners to ensure that sanctions
remain fully in place.

We must retain the Council's focus on Ukraine.
Next Thursday, the United Kingdom will co-host an
Arria Formula meeting to discuss this blatant violation
of international law and the Charter of the United
Nations. The chaos, violence and ongoing loss of life
resulting from Russia's military operations clearly
merit the Council's time. We must be ready to remain
seized of the issue.

We welcome and support Italy's intention to
prioritize tackling modern slavery and addressing
the challenges associated with migration, including
corruption and trafficking. In addition, we support
Italy's focus on the implementation of the OSCE
Action Plan for the Promotion of Gender Equality and
on protracted conflicts, which continue to undermine
security in the OSCE region. Those are areas where the
OSCE's cross-dimensional approach can add real value.
We are keen to work with Italy to ensure that OSCE
activities complement, rather than duplicate, the work
of United Nations agencies and other organizations.

The OSCE's autonomous institutions and network
of field operations can and do make a significant
contribution to the promotion of security, stability,
democracy and the rule of law across the region.
However, it is able to do so only when Member States
stand up for the principles that guide it. It is the task of all
of us on the Security Council to stand up for those who
suffer acts of aggression from larger neighbours, for the
Charter of the United Nations and for international law.

