Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): We are pleased to welcome to the Security
Council the Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Germany, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, in his
capacity as Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). We
thank him for his substantive briefing.

We have consistently stood for developing and
improving cooperation between the United Nations
and regional and subregional mechanisms on the
basis of the Charter of the United Nations, first and
foremost Chapter VIII. It is on this very foundation
that cooperation between the United Nations and the
OSCE should be based. Cooperation between the two
organizations is regular and multilateral in nature,
covering all dimensions of security, as well as cross-
dimensional issues.

We share the emphasis of the German chairmanship
on the "all-weather" dialogue, for which the OSCE
has a solid foundation in the form of the genuine
equality of all States parties and a broad-based agenda,
which reflects the interests of all. As is well known,
in the OSCE not a single State or bloc of States can
freeze matters of common interest and of paramount
importance for European security. There are collective
means of crisis management, which enjoy high
credibility in the region. That must remain the OSCE's
philosophy of dialogue in the future.

The OSCE has entered into its fifth decade
of existence, having accumulated considerable
international experience and created its own
mechanisms. Unfortunately, the ideals that were at the
heart of the creation of the organization have not always
been implemented in practice, nor has cooperation
between States become a key rallying factor. Sometimes,
one has the impression that geopolitical egoism or a
narrowness of political thinking has the upper hand.

Who would have thought that in the heart of Europe
there could have been such a violent armed coup d'etat
as took place in Ukraine, and even with the support of
some members of the OSCE? In that context, the people
of Crimea were free to decide to join Russia. The
instruments that were proposed by the OSCE to settle
the crisis, including the Swiss road map, remained on
the table, first and foremost due to Kyiv's lack of desire
to seek a solution based on an inclusive dialogue to
solve the conflict with different regions and to a lack
of good political leadership. The agenda was imposed
by radicals. That is the reason not only for the complete
disarray in the economic and political life of Ukraine,
but also of Kyiv's failure to implement a number of key
provisions of the package of measures agreed upon in
Minsk by the leaders of Normandy quartet and endorsed
in resolution 2202 (2015).

We believe that one of the primary tasks for the
German chairmanship of the OSCE should be the full
implementation of the package of measures. In that
regard, it is quite convenient that Germany is also
an active member of Normandy format, and indeed,
thanks to its international prestige, Germany has given
the package of measures more weight. Nevertheless,
the OSCE has neither the political nor the moral right
to lose sight of the investigation of the tragedy on the
Maidan in February 2014 and in Odessa on 2 May 2014.

We called attention to the brash assertion of certain
participants at the events in the Maidan, recently widely
publicized in Ukraine, who openly acknowledged that
they were the instigators of killings of law enforcement
officers, who, unarmed, were ensuring public order in
the capital of Ukraine in those days. No charges have
been levied against them, nor are investigations under
way. We cannot indulge in their impunity.

We think that the current format of cooperation
between the United Nations and the OSCE in Ukraine
is sufficient. We base this on the fact that the parties
themselves have the primary responsibility for
implementing the practical solutions to stabilize the
situation - demining, rehabilitation of infrastructure,
exchange of prisoners and so on. It is important to
recall the dangers of attempts to blur or reinterpret the
existing mechanisms, such as the Contact Group or the
Normandy format, and to launch new initiatives that
only distract us from the necessity to fully implement
the package of measures.

On the whole, we support the activities of the
OSCE Monitoring Mission in Ukraine. We believe
that monitors could pay more attention to monitoring
on the territory under the control of the Ukrainian
army - in particular the Dnepropetrovsk, Kharkov and
Zaporozhye regions, where armaments and equipment
are being accumulated - and provide more complete
reporting on their activities. However, despite those
criticisms, the OSCE Monitoring Mission in Ukraine is
the only mechanism that can work with all parties to the
conflict: Kyiv and Donetsk and Luhansk.

It is of the utmost importance that the monitoring
activities be carried out in a manner that is equal on both
sides ofthe line of contact, and not concentrated mainly
in the territories under the control of the militias. Due to
such distortions, mistrust arises on the part of Luhansk
and Donetsk, which in particular is then reflected in the
problems of access by monitors to sites in the republics.
We would like to note that Monitoring Mission staff
regularly visit districts along the Ukrainian-Russian
border, and nothing suspicious has been documented in
their reports.

An important element in establishing a global
unifying agenda is strengthening the OSCE as a
format for dialogue and cooperation with regard to
transnational threats and challenges. We support the
efforts of the German chairmanship in that regard. It
would be advisable to conduct a joint assessment of
threats to common security. We hope that documents
already adopted by the United Nations and the OSCE
on the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking
will provide more results. We note the contribution of
Berlin to the preliminary agreement on 12 February
in Vienna of the additional list of confidence-building
measures in the use of information and computer
technologies. We believe that the OSCE can contribute
to the response to the migration crisis, which requires
in-depth discussion.

On the military-political front, a common
understanding of shared goals in arms control and
confidence-building measures is needed. But for this
one needs to overcome the logic of containment, a mode
of thinking again prevailing among NATO strategists.

We recognize the relevance ofincluding an item on
sustainable connectivity on the agenda of economic and
environmental baskets. Harmonizing and calibrating
the integration processes in Europe and Eurasia
are designed to reduce the potential for conflict on
the continent. We think that the upcoming business
conference in Berlin on economic connectivity on
18 and 19 May will allow progress on that path.

The humanitarian dimension of the OSCE should
be depoliticized, cleansed of double standards.
Russian priorities in that regard are well-known - the
protection of universal traditional values; countering
aggressive nationalism, radicalism and neo-Nazism;
preventing attempts to falsify the history of the Second
World War; the fight against ethnic and religious
intolerance, including against Christians; and the
protection of journalists working in conflict zones.
Ensuring the rights of children and the disabled,
non-intervention in private life and agreement on
common rules for monitoring elections are among other
topics that the OSCE should pay more attention to. The
whole spectrum of social, economic and cultural rights
require equal attention.

