Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): I will not comment on the statement made by
the representative of Ukraine in all its details because
we have already heard, in 24 previous meetings, the
same politicized, often anti-Russian statements. But I
will just focus on three aspects of his statement and the
statements of several other colleagues.

First, I believe that it is inappropriate to bring to
the Security Council discussions that are ongoing in the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE), particularly in regard to the implementation
of the provisions of the Minsk agreements regarding
border monitoring. Since there have been accusations
against Russia in that context, I wouldjust like to recall
that the proposal to deploy OSCE observers at certain
border crossing points was made by the Russian side
in the context of the ceasefire. The ceasefire did not
take place. However, we went even further. We said
that, even in the absence of a ceasefire, we would be
ready to deploy the observers on the Russian side of
the Russian-Ukrainian border. That was a significant
gesture by the Russian Federation, and any criticism in
that regard is unacceptable.

With regard to the issues being discussed by the
OSCE in Vienna, I would like to recall that, as I noted
in my statement, the Minsk protocol presupposes a
certain sequence of steps that needs to be followed.
The sequence is first and foremost based on the
implementation of the ceasefire, which unfortunately
did not take place.

The Ukrainian representative made a very important
appeal for an end to the shelling of areas where civilians
live. Why does he not direct his appeal to his own side?
He mentioned the insurgents. He asserted that civilians
are dying as a result of such shelling. If that is the case,
that is of course very unfortunate. However, civilians,
sometimes as many as 19 people in one day, are dying
in the Donbas region as a result of shells being fired by
the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We note an interesting
use of terms. The representative of Ukraine says that
its armed forces are not responsible, but what about the
battalions under Ukrainian command? It seems that
they are under such command but the impression is that
they are not.

Once again, our Ukrainian colleague could do
no better than give an unverified version of events,
according to which a separatist missile shot down
the Malaysian Airlines flight. I want to reiterate that
it is irresponsible to voice unverified accounts in the
Security Council. In that context, I have two questions:
how and why did that happen? I will explain. Everyone
now knows that as soon as the tragedy occurred,
rumours were circulated in Kyiv. False information that
was supposed to affirm a particular version of events
was given. Why was that done? Because if one has
information, why not share it? Why keep it secret? That
is just a very simple explanation.

In the preliminary report that they provided to
us, the Dutch experts said that the air traffic control
recordings were routine and contained nothing of
value. If they are routine, why not publish them just
to demonstrate transparency? What is more serious
is the fact that our experts have drawn up some 40
important questions that need to be answered in
order to understand what happened. The Ukrainian
representative has made no attempt to reply to a single
one of those questions. It is time for him to cease - in
particular at Security Council meetings - his endless
repetitions of unverified versions of events and to
answer those questions. We would then be able to have
a serious discussion.

Otherwise, let us wait and try to conduct the
investigation as seriously as possible, as we proposed
on 19 September (see S/PV.7269).

