Ms. Murmokaite (Lithuania): I would like to
thank you, Sir, for convening this urgent meeting on
the situation in Ukraine. Let me also thank Under-
Secretary-General Jeffrey Feltman for his briefing and
insights into the current situation.

Lithuania condemns in the strongest terms the
attacks on Mariupol and extends its sincere condolences
to the families of those who have lost their lives or have
been injured during these attacks.

The bloodiest conflict in Europe since the Balkan
wars is taking place as we speak. Last Wednesday in
this Chamber (see S/PV.7365), the Security Council
members once again expressed concern at the situation
and urged all parties to the conflict, including Russia,
to return to the Minsk agreements and ensure their
prompt and full implementation in order to prevent
even more destruction and bloodshed. Alas, what
we saw over the weekend was more deadly shelling,
more destruction, and more human tragedy caused by
the Kremlin's unbridled mercenaries, including the
deadly attack on Mariupol, which this Council failed
to condemn because Russia put protecting the militants
above condemning the perpetrators.

After 29 open briefings and no progress on the
ground, it is hard not to sound repetitive here. However,
we cannot let Ukraine fall through the cracks of
international attention. More than 5,000 dead, some
11,000 injured and about 1.5 million displaced - such
is the cost of Russia's continued aggression against
Ukraine. Almost 50,000 people have fled their homes
since 14 January; at least 262 people were killed
between 13 and 21 January alone. Last week again,
from 75 to 115 shelling attacks on Ukrainian positions
took place every day. The Donetsk airport, which the
Kremlin-sponsored militants captured last week, has
been pounded to rubble by months of attacks, causing
destruction seen only in the worst of wars. Some 550
square kilometres of land have been captured by the
illegal militants since the beginning of the ceasefire.
Such are the realities of what we continue to call a
ceasefire.

Just like the breaches of the 1991 Alma Ata
Declaration, the 1994 Budapest Memorandum on
Security Assurances, the 1997 Black Sea Fleet
Agreement Between the Russian Federation and
Ukraine and various other documents, including the
more recent the Geneva statement and the Berlin joint
declaration, the Minsk agreements are just another
casualty of Russia's aggression against neighbouring
Ukraine.

One does not seek peace by arming illegal fighters
in a neighbouring country with advanced artillery
systems, multiple rocket launchers, truckloads of arms
and ammunition, and tanks. One does not seek peace by
sending one's own troops and commandos to fight on
the soil of one's neighbour. One does not seek peace by
issuing continuous threats and intimidations vis-a-vis
one's neighbour, or by annexing parts ofthe neighbour's
territory. One does not seek peace by unleashing a
continuous barrage of hate-mongering propaganda
and lies aimed at dehumanizing and demonizing one's
neighbour. As long as Russia persists on this course, let
us be frank, peace in Ukraine has no chance.

Last Saturday, Ukraine suffered the second
deadliest single incident on its soil since the downing
of flight MH-l7 in July 2014. Some 30 people were
killed and about 90 wounded during the shelling of the
city of Mariupol. The Under-Secretary-General spoke
of the militants withdrawing unilaterally from the
ceasefire. In the days preceding the attack, Alexander
Zakharchenko, the self-proclaimed boss of the so-
called Donetsk People's Republic, repeatedly stated his
disdain for the ceasefire. "There is no ceasefire. We
will fight. I promise," he said.
"There will be no more ceasefires or rotations
There will be no attempts to talk about ceasefire
from our side. Kyiv does not understand that we are
now able to attack on three fronts at once."

And then hours before the tragedy, he said: "Today
the offensive against Mariupol begins. In a few days
we will swallow the Debaltsevo kettle". Notably, a day
before the deadly attacks, Russia's Ambassador to the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) anticipated Mariupol's "liberation" in an
interview with CNN's Christiane Amanpour.

And yet, in spite of the obvious, Russia continues
to blame Ukraine for ceasefire violations, including
the Mariupol attack. Anti-Ukrainian rhetoric is not
abating. Last week in this Chamber, we heard the long-
debunked myths of "the junta", "the coup", "fascist
Ukraine", and "oppression of Russian speakers" being
once again resuscitated and put into use. For a year now,
aggressive anti-Ukrainian propaganda has been used to
brainwash, confuse, distract and obfuscate.

The international community should not and must
not give in to these obfuscations. Therefore, let me ask
again: How can a bunch of illegal militants expand their
offensive, continue capturing territory and threaten to
carry out attacks on three fronts against the State of
Ukraine? How can a bunch of illegal militants without
external trade ties, income or budget amass hundreds
of armored combat vehicles, artillery systems and
rocket launchers - all those Tochka-U tactical missile
launch systems, Grad rockets, Uragan and Buratino
rocket launchers? How can they afford modern tanks,
each of which costs at least $4 million? How can they
claim their own air fleet? How can hundreds of Russian
soldiers be dying on Ukraine's soil if they are not even
there?

How come hundreds of Russian mothers receive
the dead bodies of their sons in Cargo 200 boxes from
a conflict to which Russia claims it is not a party?
How come, in spite of the devastating lawlessness and
countless crimes committed by the separatist militants
and registered in the reports of the Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights, Russia has not even
once, not even mildly, condemned the perpetrators?
All of this, as well as Russia's persistent protectiveness
of the illegal militants, speak to Russia's direct
involvement in and support for the war in Ukraine.

That involvement has been confirmed by certain
militant leaders. Back in August last year, the same
Alexander Zakharchenko said that thousands of
Russian citizens, including many professional soldiers,
were fighting alongside the separatists. And then he
suddenly withdrew his statement, just as he retracted
his boasting about the attack on Mariupol on Saturday.
Another notorious character, the Russian commando
Igor Girkin - who is also known as Strelkov and who
played a big role in stoking war in eastern Ukraine -
recently boasted to the press about having started the
war by crossing the border with his squad, saying that
if it had not been for them, there would have been no
separatism in eastern Ukraine. A few days ago, he
also said the Crimea referendum was carried out at
gunpoint - something many of us have been repeating
since the bogus plebiscite was held.

Life in eastern Ukraine may have been far from
perfect due, to long years of neglect by successive
Governments, yet the local inhabitants, many of them
Russian speakers, had homes to return to after work,
had their daily lives and had their daily bread. Thanks
to the Kremlin's decision to "protect" Russian speakers,
they now have no homes, no jobs and no income and may
have lost dear ones or may be dead themselves. Russia's
war, Russia's proxies and the abysmal lawlessness they
imposed have brought destruction, displacement and
death to the region.

In spite of all the ceasefire violations and military
attacks, the Ukrainian leadership firmly maintains
that the Minsk agreements are the only way forward
towards peace. However, the Minsk agreements must be
implemented by all the parties to the conflict - Russia
included f in full and without arbitrary revisions or
manipulation. The onus is on Russia to put an end to
this senseless war by ending support to illegal armed
groups, accepting international monitoring of the
Ukrainian-Russian border, withdrawing its troops and
weaponry from eastern Ukraine, ensuring the release
by the illegal militants of all illegally detained persons,
including Nadiya Savchenko - who is being held
illegally on Russian territory - ending the manipulation
of humanitarian assistance and reaffirming its respect
for Ukraine's sovereignty, independence, unity and
territorial integrity. International observers, including
the United Nations and the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe monitoring missions, must
be provided full and unconditional access to the entire
territory of Ukraine, including Crimea. Their reporting
is indispensable to get the facts straight.

