Mr. Pankin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): At the outset, I would call on my colleagues on
the Security Council not to turn the Council's meetings
into farces of rabid hysterics.

We carefully listened to the briefing ofthe Assistant
Secretary-General ad interim for PoliticalAffairs,
Mr. Toynberg-Frandzen and thank him for the
information provided. We also thank the Chief Monitor
of the Organization of Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine,
Mr. Apakan, and the representative of the OSCE
Chairperson-in-Office of the OSCE, Ms. Tagliavini.
We were interested to hear the evaluations of those who
are directly working on the ground every day to resolve
the situation in south-eastern the Ukraine.

At the same time, we believe that inviting
international players acting under an OSCE mandate
to Security Council meetings is not totally appropriate,
not to mention that it distracts them from their direct
obligations and unnecessarily politicizes practical
activities. The fact that inviting them was for precisely
that purpose has been confirmed by the statements we
have heard today by several Council members, who
have used our platform and the OSCE representatives
not to constructively seek a solution to an internal
Ukrainian crisis, but rather to make another foray into
propaganda, with new flourishes.

The situation in the Donetsk and Luhansk provinces
unquestionably remains tense. The ceasefire regime is
not being fully complied with, and the withdrawal of
heavy weaponry and equipment has not begun. On the
contrary, during the entire period of the ceasefire we
have seen Ukrainian forces concentrated along almost
all the front lines. It is important to note that that
concentration of the Ukrainian forces is taking place
very close to the cities of Donbas, which the rebels are
forced to protect. As a result, there have been clashes
between the parties along the front lines. Innocent
civilians are being killed every day, especially in
territory controlled by the Ukrainian armed forces in
the residential areas of Avdeyevka and Peski. There
is systematic shelling in residential areas of Donetsk
near the airport. On 6 November, a mortar shell
launched from that neighbourhood in a north-westerly
direction - which has been confirmed by the OSCE
monitors - fell on a Donetsk sports school soccer
field, killing two boys and injuring three. Cluster
munitions fired from the same position at the beginning
of October killed some workers from the International
Committee of the Red Cross.

In the Russian language the word "truth" exists
only in the singular. It has no plural, unlike the word
"lie", and in the context of that silenced truth, it would
seem logical that the strengthened rebel positions the
OSCE monitors have seen are in areas that are under
constant attack by the armed forces. Apparently Kyiv's
fear of the rebel forces is so great that in order to justify
their failures and the massive deployment ofpeople and
equipment to the front, we are once again hearing loud
assertions about Russia sending weapons and members
of its regular army. In the Western capitals and through
NATO they are shouting pronouncements about virtual
deployment of convoys and fighters from Russian
territory. But no one is presenting any real facts to
confirm such assertions, because this is all empty talk
and the usual propagandistic lies. It should be clear that
in the current conditions, the Russia-Ukraine border is
subject to particularly careful attention and observation
and is easy to monitor, including from space.

We are unfortunately compelled to admit that we
are discouraged by the almost complete lack of reaction
from the OSCE Mission concerning the movements
and strengthening of positions of the Ukrainian armed
forces and its other armed sub-divisions, which, by the

way, have their own "Daddies", as one of our colleagues
expressed it here in the Chamber. We do not know to
whom or how they are accountable. But on 9 November
heavy artillery and tanks entered Karlivka; on
8 November Grad and Uragan multiple-launch rocket
systems and Scud missile launchers arrived in the
Luhansk area, and a group of 500 Ukrainian military
entered the Krasna Talivka district in the Luhansk
region. On 7 November, 32 tanks approached the eastern
outskirts of Horlivka, while 13 tanks, 15 Shilka self-
guided anti-aircraft guns, 7 Tochka-U tactical missile
launch systems, 6 Grad multiple launch rocket systems
and a Smerch multiple rocket launcher headed for
Artemivsk. On 6 November a tank convoy entered the
outskirts of Yasynuvata in Donetsk province. Those are
statistics. Why are these facts not being talked about? It
must be clear to everyone that the lack of information on
this in the OSCE report creates a false and provocative
picture of what has happened. We hope that gap will
be filled.

We believe that the full, thorough compliance of
the parties to the conflict with the Minsk agreement
is essential. In that regard, he first major issue is
establishing a genuine ceasefire that both sides would
observe responsibly. No less important, however,
are the elements of the agreements concerning the
decentralization of authority and establishing an
inclusive nationwide dialogue and measures for
improving the humanitarian and economic situation in
Donbas. But the Ukrainian authorities are doing none
of those things.

We are concerned about President Poroshenko's
decision to recall the law on a special status for specific
areas of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces. After all, that
is a cornerstone of the Minsk agreements, which will
essentially be made completely null and void. The law
was not ideal and had limited legitimacy; the previous
convocation of the Verkhovna Rada did not indicate
the boundaries of the districts that would have special
status, and the date of 7 December for elections cited
in the law was notdiscussed with representatives from
Donetsk and Luhansk and violated Ukraine's own
Constitution. Despite that, the law could have become
a basis for further talks between Kyiv and the rebels.

Kyiv also failed to implement another important
provision of the Minsk agreement, the law granting
amnesty to those who have participated in the events.
Moreover, it appears that the Chair of the Verkhovna
Rada is proposing that it be rescinded. No guarantees of
personal security for participants in the consultations
were provided.

Turning now to the humanitarian aspects of the
agreements, we find that instead of taking measures
to rebuild Donbas, the Ukrainian Government has
established a new order for financing its budgetary
institutions and meeting social and pension
payments - they have simply been cancelled. How
can there be any talk of trust from ordinary people's
point of view when their homes being bombed and they
themselves lack the wherewithal to live? In that regard,
we reject any accusations directed at Russia's efforts to
send humanitarian convoys carrying food, medicines
and building materials to Donetsk and Luhansk. In the
worsening circumstances, such accusations are simply
amoral. And we have had enough of the fabrications
and distortions on this subject. Kyiv is informed about
every humanitarian convoy fully and in good time,
but getting its cooperation is problematic. We get the
feeling that it is not very concern about the fate of its
own people in those regions.

Regarding the elections held in the Luhansk and
Donetsk regions on 2 November, over which a number
of delegations have expressed exaggerated horror, as if
the process was not a democratic one, I would like to
emphasize the following points. The Russian Federation
respects the will of the people of the south-east as they
have expressed it. On the whole, the elections were
conducted in an orderly way and oter turn-out was high,
and certainly not forced at gunpoint. It is particularly
important that the elected representatives received
a mandate to resolve the practical issues of restoring
normal life in the region. They pose no threats to the
Minsk agreements and the peace process. Moreover,
they present a unique opportunity for launching a
sustainable dialogue between the central Ukrainian
authorities and the representatives of Donbas, with the
goal of finding comprehensive political solutions that
can eliminate the accumulated disagreements.

We have been talking since the spring about the
fact that there is no alternative to an inclusive dialogue
conducted on a mutually respectful and equal basis.
It is high time for Kyiv to fulfil the obligations it
undertook in Geneva, particularly given that it now has
representative partners in the negotiations.

