Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) (spoke in Chinese): Today
is the last day of February. China thanks Venezuela,
in its capacity as Council president this month, for
leading the Council to conduct its work efficiently
and practically. I also wish Angola every success in its
Council presidency in March.

I thank you, Sir, for convening today's open
meeting. I welcome Foreign Minister Steinmeier
of Germany to today's meeting in his capacity as
Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). I listened carefully
to his briefing.

In recent years, the OSCE has made positive efforts
in preventive diplomacy, enhancing security and mutual
confidence, and mediating regional disputes. China
commends the OSCE for its efforts and welcomes
the priorities defined by the German chairmanship
for enhancing dialogue, rebuilding mutual trust
and restoring security. We hope that the OSCE shall
continue to play its constructive role in maintaining
regional peace, security and stability.

China consistently advocates for political solutions
to regional hotspot issues through dialogue and
negotiation, and supports regional and subregional
organizations in conducting preventive diplomacy,
defusing differences and settling conflicts by
peaceful means so as to contribute to the promotion of
regional peace and security. The activities of regional
organizations should conform to the principles and
purposes of the Charter of the United Nations, in
particular the principle of respect for the sovereignty,
independence and territorial integrity of all countries.

The Security Council and regional and subregional
organizations have their respective advantages in
maintaining international peace and security. The
United Nations and the Security Council should, in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the
United Nations, continue to deepen cooperation with
regional and subregional organizations so as to be
mutually complementary in their efforts to jointly
uphold the Charter and the basic principles guiding
international relations. The OSCE is an important
partner of the United Nations. We support the Security
Council's engagement in efficient and practical
cooperation with the OSCE in maintaining regional
peace and security.

The overall situation in eastern Ukraine is relatively
calm. All relevant parties, including the OSCE, have
made positive efforts in this process. A comprehensive
settlement of the Ukraine issue must follow the general
direction of a political solution, taking fully into
account the legitimate rights, interests and demands
of all regions and ethnic groups within Ukraine, while
paying due attention to the legitimate concerns of all
relevant parties. China supports all relevant parties
in fully implementing the Minsk agreement, as called
for in resolution 2202 (2015), and in continuously
advancing a political solution to the Ukraine issue. The
international community should enable the Normandy
and Minsk mediation mechanisms to play their full
roles and jointly advance the early achievement of
peace, calm, stability and development in Ukraine.

