Mr. Delattre (France) (spoke in French): Today,
I welcome the presence of Mr. Sebastian Kurz, the
Austrian Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign
Affairs, at the Security Council table and congratulate
his country on its assumption of the chairmanship
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe (OSCE) for this year. In the challenging
strategic environment that Europe is facing today,
Austria knows that it can count on our full support to
implement its programme of work, which is centred
appropriately on the themes of security, conflict
resolution and combating radicalization and terrorism.
In our View, today more than ever, the OSCE serves
as an indispensable toolbox for the security services in
Europe, especially on the ground.

In my statement, I will take up two points: the
central role of the OSCE in our efforts to end the
Ukrainian crisis, and priority challenges on which,
more generally, we must get the OSCE to focus.

The current crisis in eastern Ukraine is one of the
most serious and dangerous violations of the founding
principles of the OSCE, penned in Helsinki more than
40 years ago. It is therefore appropriate that this topic
has been a top priority on the organization's agenda
for the past three years. The OSCE has been up to the
task in responding to the matter, which is a source of
satisfaction for us. It has lived up to the responsibility
that falls upon it by rapidly deploying monitoring
missions and subsequently assuming a central role in
ensuring the implementation of the Minsk agreements,
which remain the only way forward for a peaceful
settlement of the conflict.

As I had the opportunity to say during yesterday's
open debate on conflicts in Europe (see S/PV.7886),
France has been deeply concerned by the recent
escalation of tensions on the ground, in particular
around the town of Avdiivka, as well as its direct
consequences in terms of the human toll and the
worsening of the humanitarian situation. France is also
determined, in conjunction with its German partners, to
pursue mediation efforts within the Normandy format,
as every bit of progress counts and we see no alternative
solution for supporting the Minsk agreements.

The ministerial meeting held in Munich on
Saturday made it possible to agree on specific
commitments aimed at fostering a rapid improvement
in the situation on the ground. Those commitments
include the implementation of an immediate ceasefire,
the withdrawal of heavy weapons, the protection of
critical infrastructure, the effective disengagement
of the most sensitive areas, the exchange of prisoners
and access by the International Committee of the Red
Cross to detention facilities. It is essential that they be
implemented as soon as possible, and we count on the
unanimous support of the Council in that respect.

We remain convinced more than ever that the OSCE
and its field missions have an essential role to play in
ensuring the practical implementation of decisions
taken at the political level. In that regard, it is crucial
that the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine
be in a position to fully and freely carry out its mandate.
We reiterate our call for the respect for the full freedom
of movement of its observers, whose security must be
guaranteed, and condemn in the strongest terms any
violation of these principles - whether it takes the
form of intimidation, threats, destruction of equipment
or denied access to certain areas. The involvement of
the OSCE in securing local elections in the Donbas will
also be necessary, in ways that remain to be determined.
Finally, I reiterate my country's commitment to
defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
Ukraine. I note that France strongly condemns and
does not recognize the illegal annexation of Crimea
and Sevastopol.

Beyond Ukraine, the OSCE remains more than ever
an essential instrument for the promotion of peace and
security in Europe, amid diverse threats. The situation
should encourage its 57 members to abandon political
posturing and rediscover the spirit of Helsinki, which,
more than 40 years ago, gave rise to a common vision
of security in Europe. In that context, we believe
that the work of the OSCE should now focus on the
following issues.

First is the resolution of regional conflicts.
Beyond the Ukrainian case, we cannot accept the
persistence of frozen conflicts in various parts of the
European continent, whether in Nagorno Karabakh,
Transnistria or the separatist territories of Georgia. We
are convinced that the role of the OSCE is central to
each, together with the established mediation formats,
in order to promote dialogue and restore confidence.
Achieving tangible progress on each of those fronts is
in the interest of the concerned countries, but also of
the region as a whole. We are particularly attached to
the outcome.

Next is the revival of conventional arms control
in Europe. There can be no strategic stability without
a set of common rules to frame military competition.
We are therefore in favour of continuing discussions
on arms control, confidence-building, transparency
and risk-reduction measures, initiated last year under
the German chairmanship in the context of the OSCE'S
structured dialogue.

Maintaining the centrality of the democracy and
human rights pillar in the work of the OSCE is equally
important. While a multidimensional approach has
always been at the heart of the functioning of the
OSCE, we are concerned about the tendency of some
member States to increasingly politicize or even refuse
to address human dimension issues. Specifically, the
introduction of a selective approach to combating
discrimination is unacceptable.

Last is the development of the operational role of
the OSCE in response to certain emerging challenges. I
am thinking of the fight against human trafficking, the
prevention of radicalization, and climate change. The
OSCE must work on each of those issues, which are
priority security challenges for Europe, and respond
with concrete measures that go beyond mere public
posturing and statement of positions.

I shall conclude my remarks by recalling the strong
convergences between the action of the OSCE and that
of the United Nations, whether on the ground - where
their respective missions continue their integrated
action, from the Balkans to the Caucasus and Central
Asia- or on principles, with a common approach linking
security, development and human rights concerns.

