Mr. Delattre (France) (spoke in French): lwould like
to thank Mr. Fernandez-Taranco and Mr. Simonovic' for
their briefings, and my British colleague for initiating
this meeting.

The human rights situation in Ukraine continues
to deteriorate, as the sixth report of the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
based on the work of the United Nations Human Rights
Monitoring Mission in Ukraine makes clear. It has been
marked by an escalation ofhostilities that came to a head
at the beginning of September, just before the signing
of the ceasefire agreement. The report emphasizes that
for the fighting to have reached such a level of intensity,
the pro-Russian militias must have been supported by
many foreign fighters, including Russians, and must
also have been reinforced with sophisticated weaponry.
Those responsible for the escalation are the same as
those who several months ago decided that Ukrainian
sovereignty could be violated, in defiance ofthe Charter
of the United Nations.

Since the signing of the Minsk agreements, the
front as a whole has stabilized, leading to a diminished
overall level of violence, although the ceasefire is
regularly violated and fighting continues here and there
owing to the separatists' wish to homogenize their
territory. The situation this summer led to a significant
increase in casualties, both civilian and military, and
to an increase in violations of human rights, including
recourse to torture, summary executions and abductions.
We condemn all violations of international standards,
including the protection of human rights that should be
respected by all parties to the conflict. That is especially
true in the areas controlled by the separatists, in which
people are indeed living in fear and under threat and
from which thousands of civilians have fled. We should
remember that the death penalty has been reinstated in
Donetsk; that when people leave their homes, they are
confiscated; and that there are no more police or courts
to defend Ukrainians against the arbitrary decisions of
militias. As a result, thousands of people have taken
to the road, forced to leave everything they own. With
winter approaching, the displaced populations will be
in a seriously precarious situation.

We are also following with concern the deteriorating
situation for the people of Crimea. The Tatars, in
particular, are experiencing abuse from self-defence
groups as well as numerous administrative problems,
expropriations and arbitrary arrests. Their human
rights, such as the freedoms of expression, religion,
conscience and movement, are routinely flouted. In
that regard, we wish to reiterate our commitment to
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine's
international borders.

Against that bleak backdrop, a new dynamic has
nonetheless emerged. With the ceasefire agreed in
Minsk on 5 September, followed by the 19 September
agreement, a diplomatic process has finally begun
between Kyiv and Moscow. France, together with
its European partners, will continue to support that
engagement between the Russians and the Ukrainians,
in particular within the framework of the format agreed
in Normandy in June. Those agreements offer a sound
basis for envisioning a solution to the crisis that is based
on three pillars: respect for the ceasefire, the monitoring
of the border, and political discussions aimed at finding
a lasting solution. The discussions are taking place,
and Presidents Putin and Poroshenko met in Milan last
week on the sidelines ofthe Asia-Europe summit. There
has been some progress on border monitoring and the
monitoring of the cease-fire, generally speaking.

Nevertheless, we will remain vigilant to ensure
that support for the separatists finally ceases, that the
weakening of the State and the rule of law is checked,
and that the ceasefire is fully respected. We are
awaiting the securing of the Russian-Ukrainian border
and its permanent monitoring under the auspices of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE). We believe the mandate of the OSCE Special
Monitoring Mission in Russian territory should be
strengthened and expanded as quickly as possible to
cover other border crossings.

Those efforts testify to our collective commitment
to resolve the crisis in Ukraine. But that crisis can only
be resolved if all the actors act in equal good faith. We
welcome the measures taken by Ukraine to implement
its commitments, in particular the adoption by the
Ukrainian parliament of a law envisioning an interim
status of local autonomy for certain regions. In that
regard, we would hope that the establishment of that
new status through upcoming local elections might
provide an opportunity for all parties to resolutely
commit to a de-escalation and to a solution to the crisis.

Furthermore, we call on all parties to work
effectively to make it possible to hold early parliamentary
elections this Sunday, in accordance with international
standards and on all of the Ukrainian territory. Those
elections are crucial to enable Ukraine to continue on
its necessary path of reforms. Those who oppose the
election would be demonstrating their rejection of
compromise and peace. The elections on Sunday are an
opportunity for a fresh start for Ukraine, for Russia and
for stability in the whole region.

