Sir Mark Lyall Grant (United Kingdom): I thank
the three briefers for their briefings this afternoon.

As others have pointed out, the Council has met
many times on Ukraine over the past six months. There
is a reason for that. The situation in Ukraine continues
to be a severe threat and indeed an escalating threat
to international peace and security. There is a reason
why that is so. Since the start of the crisis, Russian
actions have been consistently designed to undermine,
interfere with and transgress Ukraine's sovereignty and
territorial integrity in a way that flouts international
norms, including the Charter of the United Nations.

Since the Council last met on 24 October to discuss
Ukraine (see S/PV.7287), Russia and the separatists
it supports have repeatedly undermined and ignored
the Minsk agreements. Russian leaders have told us
one thing and then ordered their military, their special
forces and their separatist rebel proxies to do another.
The ceasefire has been breached. Attempts to monitor
and verify the ceasefire and the border have been
blocked. Russia continues to supply its soldiers in
Ukraine and the separatists they fight alongside with
heavy weaponry, artillery, tanks and armoured vehicles
in flagrant breach of the Minsk protocols.

Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) reporting in recent days lays bare the
extent of that Russian support. On several separate
occasions, the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission has
witnessed significant numbers of troops and military
equipment moving in convoy in separatist-held areas. I
will mention just one such report. On 8 November, the
Mission observed a convoy of more than 40 unmarked
military vehicles moving west on the outskirts of
Donetsk. It included 19 unmarked Kamaz trucks,
each towing a howitzer artillery piece and carrying
personnel in green uniforms without insignia; 15
Kraz troop carriers; 6 fuel tankers; and an unmarked
Bronetransporter armoured personnel carrier. We
have seen this pattern before - unmarked columns of
military vehicles entering Ukraine to support continued
fighting by separatists. Efforts to remove markings
and insignia from those vehicles cannot disguise the
fact that they come from Russia. What other credible
explanation is there?

Yet Russia continues to deny that fact, despite
the fact that its attempts at deception turned to farce
only yesterday when Russian television station NTV
broadcast footage of an armoured personnel carrier
at the head of a column in Donetsk bearing markings
from the Russian city of Ryazan. If Russia is not
supplying separatists across the border, then why does
it continue to block any expansion of OSCE border
monitoring? Russia must implement the commitment
it made at Minsk to allow the monitoring of its border
with Ukraine, of which only 2 kilometres are currently
observed by the OSCE. Flights of OSCE unmanned
aerial vehicles (UAVs) above Donetsk must also be
allowed to proceed unhindered. OSCE reports that
UAVs are being jammed electronically by military-
grade equipment call into question the credibility of the
commitment towards the Minsk agreements of those
who control that territory and their Russian supporters.

The United Kingdom deeply regrets that illegal
elections took place in separatist-controlled areas of
Donetsk and Luhansk on 2 November. The Secretary-
General could not have been clearer in his public
message that the elections were illegal under Ukrainian
law and seriously undermined the Minsk protocol. The
Chairperson-in-Office of the OSCE was equally clear
that the elections ran counter to the letter and spirit of
the Minsk protocol and would further complicate its
implementation.

When the leadership of international organizations
to which Russia belongs issue such statements, one
would expect Russia to listen. Instead, Russia has
offered support to the elections. Russia has said that
it will respect the will of the citizens of the Donbas
despite the fact that, as President Poroshenko has made
clear, the so-called elections were "a farce at gunpoint
that had nothing in common with the real expression
of the people's will". Russia's refusal to disavow the
elections is a continuation of a pattern of Russian
behaviour that flouts the Minsk agreements and is
designed to destabilize the situation in Ukraine.

Although the focus of today's discussion is the
increase in fighting and the illegal elections held
in eastern Ukraine, the Council must not lose sight
of the deteriorating human rights situation in areas
under separatist control in eastern Ukraine and in
particular in the illegally annexed Crimean peninsula,
which the mission of the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights is still unable
to visit. We continue to receive disturbing reports of
intimidation and harassment of Crimean Tatars, ethnic
Ukrainians and all those who have refused Russian
citizenship.

The de facto Crimean authorities have undertaken
a campaign to rid the Crimean peninsula of its
Ukrainian and Tatar identity. Citizenship provisions,
the educational syllabus and the media are all being
ruthlessly engineered to that end. Crimean Tatars are
being targeted by security forces; 18 prominent Tatars
remain missing and 1 body has been found. That is an
issue that we will need to come back to discuss when
the mission of the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights produces its next
report.

We have said in the past that Russia must be
judged by actions, not words. What we see is that
Russia's actions continue to escalate tensions rather
than contribute to a peaceful resolution of the crisis.
The Minsk agreements offer a framework that can
move the situation away from the current crisis and
towards stability based upon de-escalation and respect
for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.
However, that requires genuine commitment of a kind
we have not yet seen from Russia. Instead, Russia is
taking a cynical and selective approach towards the
agreements while it continues its destabilization of
Ukraine. That must change.

We therefore call again on Russia to withdraw
its equipment, weapons and troops from Ukrainian
territory, as it undertook to do in September, and
to use its influence to secure a lasting ceasefire. Its
continued support for the armed separatists serves only
to escalate an already perilous situation and will only
lead to a further deterioration in Russia's relations with
the international community.

