Mr. Churkin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): I am very ready to go into detail. I do not
think that we need to take Mr. Steinmeier's time, as he
is already aware of this whole situation.

From the very beginning, we have said that the
crisis in Ukraine had to be resolved politically. At the
Geneva talks on 17 April 2014, which involved the
participation of the Secretary of State of the United
States, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and
Security Policy of the European Union, the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Russia, we agreed on a declaration
in which we stated that there was a need for inclusive
political dialogue. Indeed, the Chairperson-in-Office
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe also spoke about that in the road map. What
was Ukraine's response? President Poroshenko put
forth a peace initiative that provided a week for the
capitulation of the citizens of Donbas. We immediately
responded that there could be no military settlement;
there must be a political one. The Ukrainians did not
want a political settlement; they wanted a military one,
so they get what they get.

Life is real and it is what is. My Ukrainian colleague
understands that well. If he wants to go into the whole
package of measures for the implementation of the
Minsk agreements, we can do that, but we have already
said these things many times and when everything
that is supposed to happen has already been clearly
established. Border control is supposed to happen last.
It is all very clear in the package. A special status must
be established and other things must be done, which
Kyiv simply does not want to do.

Unfortunately, some States that have a strong
influence on Kyiv - not in the Normandy format, but
delegations around the table today - say "What do you
want? Ukraine just cannot do it. We know it is written
there, but Ukraine cannot do it." So, the representative
of Ukraine cannot raise that question. If he is really
talking about a political settlement, there is a need to
demand and ensure that Ukraine adopt the laws that
were supposed to be adopted under the package. Russia
cannot do it for Ukraine.

Rhetorically, the representative of Ukraine can
say whatever he wants, but unfortunately the situation
in Ukraine will only deteriorate in that context and
nobody will win.

